

### Concluding remarks


If we are to quickly save mankind and reach the prosperity we are truly capable of, those of us who've had the miraculous fortune of stumbling upon Mises/Hayek/friends' wisdom must succeed at spreading it to fellow slightly smarter apes. We must find/join people who are thoroughly convinced that such quick prosperity can be achieved and thus become beacons of hope and economic education "in order to teach those who are blinded by ignorance and emotions." We must join Mises and go over the parapet in his "intellectual battle" against the economic ignorance that threatens civilization.

Mises: 

>"Everyone carries a part of society on his shoulders; no one is relieved of his share of responsibility by others. And no one can find a safe way out for himself if society is sweeping towards destruction. Therefore, everyone, in his own interests, must thrust himself vigorously into the intellectual battle. None can stand aside with unconcern; the interests of everyone hang on the result. Whether he chooses or not, every man is drawn into the great historical struggle, the decisive battle into which our epoch has plunged us."

We must become and inspire others to be "true friends of mankind"

>"As should be increasingly clear, economics is a science which can make possible the construction of a social and political system in which human success is a feature of normal, everyday life everywhere. It is truly the humanitarian science, and only those who have studied it well and who are prepared to implement its teachings deserve to be called friends of mankind. The most important charity which true friends of mankind can pursue is to disseminate knowledge of this vital subject as widely and as deeply as they know how.” —George Reisman

Since it is a "battle of ideas" against economic ignorance for which nobody is really "to blame", we must try to keep our cool by not turning a problem of economic ignorance into a moral one which as Mises told us only leads to "irreconcilable conflict". Hayek also explains:

>"When I stressed that is genuine intellectual error that we have to fight, what I meant to bring out is that we ought to remain aware that our opponents are often high-minded idealists whose harmful teachings are inspired by very noble ideals. It seems to me that the worst mistake a fighter for our ideals can make is to ascribe to our opponents dishonest or immoral aims. I know it is sometimes difficult not to be irritated into a feeling that most of them are a bunch of irresponsible demagogues who ought to know better... if we have not yet convinced them, the reason must be that our arguments are not yet quite good enough, that we have not yet made explicit some of the foundations on which our conclusions rest. Our chief task therefore must still be to improve the argument on which our case for a free society rests."

Hazlitt as well:

>"...the hard thing must be said that, collectively, we just haven't been good enough. We haven't convinced the majority. Is this because the majority just won't listen to reason? I am enough of an optimist, and I have enough faith in human nature, to believe that people will listen to reason if they are convinced that it is reason. Somewhere, there must be some missing argument, something that we haven't seen clearly enough, or said clearly enough, or, perhaps, just not said often enough. A minority is in a very awkward position. The individuals in it can't afford to be just as good as the individuals in the majority. If they hope to convert the majority they have to be much better; and the smaller the minority, the better they have to be. They have to think better. They have to know more. They have to write better. They have to have better controversial manners. Above all, they have to have far more courage. And they have to be infinitely patient.


We should focus on those ideas that can both explain the most as quickly as possible and also cause enough doubt on what the current crop of clueless "experts" are recommending(essentially more regulation/planning and 'Central Bank Socialism' by creating money to manage the social order). [Hazlitt wisely identified a focus](https://mises.org/library/task-confronting-libertarians) on the basics on monetary policy and inflation because it is easy to understand, teach, and immediately lets people know that it is the Central Banks that are responsible for the inflation, rising prices, and general growth of government. Hayek's focus on how competition spreads information and superior order and how governments prevent/slow-down this process is also easy and a powerful way to get people closer to the proper understanding of how private property leads to economic freedom which then leads to competition and superior order. We must also do our best to keep our cool and note get too deep into the "moral sphere". A problem of economic ignorance is only made far worse by vilifying the misguided/ignorant. Also concentrating on reaching famous people seems like a simple and great strategy. There is no reason why famous athletes and movie stars and others of influence can't understand how the world works.

Let us next discuss some simple and quick ways to quickly get mankind on a path to unimaginable prosperity. 

The public sector at the Federal, State, and municipal levels, coupled with the increased costs and inefficiencies due to regulations, cause about 50% of all wealth that is created to be consumed in ways that add little in exchange or compared to the freer alternative. If we can quickly reduce this to 10% this means that the additional 40% of wealth, instead of being consumed by public sector bureaucracies that add little to no wealth as in the case of the millions of people employed by the Military for example, will still be consumed by the soon-to-be-ex-military/government-related personnel, but this time society will get in exchange a tremendous amount of wealth back, that which the ex-military personnel now produce by being members of the private sector where tax-payers get to spend the money/wealth they now got to keep due to massive tax cuts. The bigger the tax cuts the bigger the boom and expansion in private sector jobs. The sooner tax payers get to keep the wealth that is taken from them to sustain military and government personnel, the sooner they will be able to more or less give them the same wealth VOLUNTARILY for their product/services as they get jobs in private sector.

So let's begin. Abolish minimum wage laws and other restrictions on labor like minimum age requirements and obviously all the Coromunism related restrictions. This would allow everyone to work adding a tremendous boost to the economy and the very morals of people. Coromunism is over! This would greatly reduce crime since former “criminals” will now be able to find employment. It is true that some of their first jobs might not pay much initially, but with a few months of experience and the reputation that comes from this, their productivity would rise and thus would their income. The ability of children and teens to work will greatly reduce whatever little poverty exists in the USA and help to further shape a productive character, one that not only values hard work, honesty, competition, and so on, but a character that appreciates and expects those same values from other individuals because teamwork and mutual respect is crucial for successful competition. Hard working and honest people inevitably force others to be likewise. The sooner and easier we make it for people to integrate themselves into the private sector and its attitude-shaping incentives the better. Public education should be abolished immediately as well. With places like http://www.khanacademy.org/, Wikipedia.org, and the many free educational sites and games and the ability to use video/web conferencing via programs like Skype/Zoom to talk to a knowledgeable person it should be obvious to realize that there is little need to spend thousands of dollars to learn the basic reading, writing, and arithmetic skills needed to move on to more challenging concepts, and much less the need for expensive temple-or-prison-like structures we call “schools”. The war on drugs should be ended immediately and those that have been incarcerated or on parole because of it released from such bondage. At its core the drug war is simply coercion by a group of haters against others. This would turn over a million people/prisoners into wealth producers instead of wealth consumers, reunite parents with children and once again integrate people into the productive-morals-shaping private sector. The violent drug cartels that are destroying Mexico and other Latin American countries would also disappear. And also greatly help black people who are hit hardest by the drug war.

Social Security can be abolished by giving its recipients a check for 3 months of payments. Will this lead to homeless elderly? No way! Many elderly are wealthy enough so they don’t need their Social Security checks at all. The abolishment of minimum wage legislation will make it easy for the elderly to get low paying but easy and comfortable jobs which can supplement their savings in ways that will allow most to still be self-supporting. Most elderly that are unable to work and don’t have enough savings/assets to live independent lives have family members who can take care of them. Most of these elderly will still be a net economic boost to those households that bring them in; they can help with the kids/grandkids, do various errands and so on. For those that become an economic drain on their families then we have to look at the families themselves. Many can easily deal with the additional costs/burden. By the time you are looking at those elderly who are too incapacitated and can’t be taken care of by family, you are dealing with a very small number of people for whom there will be more than enough charity to deal with, especially now that economic prosperity will be growing soooo quickly. If mankind managed to take care of the elderly throughout history when feeding and caring for the old was a hugely more difficult and expensive task, we can surely do it now with much less effort. What about their healthcare or healthcare in general? First of all, much of the healthcare the elderly get is unneeded; most of what goes for medicine in the US is really a society-wide placebo effect. The average Cuban lives just as long as the average American even though the average Cuban gets little to no medical care compared to what Americans get. The abolishment of the FDA, American Medical Association, and the deregulation of the healthcare sector which should happen immediately would reduce the price of medical care tremendously and very fast. If we assume that the cost of medical care goes down by say 90% during the first year after deregulation (which I consider to be a very realistic assumption) then the fear of not having enough wealth to adequately care for even those elderly who don’t have any family should go away. The US military’s nuclear arsenal should be carefully disposed of. The US military and national defense budget can be quickly reduced to 1/10th of what it currently is(or completely abolished but I won’t get into that here J ). All troops from overseas can come home, given a check for 2 months pay and that’s it. The government can continue to pay for the care of people who have been wounded/incapacitated. A year later there will be no need for US military at all since the intellectual revolution will have similar demilitarizing effects all over the world. The national debt should simply be repudiated period! As Murray N. Rothbard writes:

“I propose, then, a seemingly drastic but actually far less destructive way of paying off the public debt at a single blow: out-right debt repudiation. Consider this question: why should the poor, battered citizens of Russia or Poland or the other ex-Communist countries be bound by the debts contracted by their former Communist masters? In the Communist situation, the injustice is clear: that citizens struggling for freedom and for a free-market economy should be taxed to pay for debts contracted by the monstrous former ruling class. But this injustice only differs by degree from "normal" public debt. For, conversely, why should the Communist government of the Soviet Union have been bound by debts contracted by the Czarist government they hated and overthrew? And why should we, struggling American citizens of today, be bound by debts created by a past ruling elite who contracted these debts at our expense?”[527]

People who owe money to the government should just not pay it back. This will greatly help the millions of students who got fooled by the bureaucracy into needing an overpriced college “education”.

If we reach enough of an understanding of freedom and economics to begin to discuss these things in the mainstream then we have definitely reached enough of an ideological change where we can drop our borders and encourage anyone who wishes to do so to come to the US. The statue of liberty will once again be free to welcome people with her beautiful and compassionate message:

“Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door”

Just a slight increase in prosperity and the spread of freedom will quickly alleviate poverty, ignorance and the extremist ideologies that arise from the two. This will greatly help soothe the chaos in the Middle East. Extremist religious views, those of Israeli settlers as well as the Islamic kind will quickly see their ideologies lose their appeal and lead to the melting away of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict. Temporarily I can envision a one state solution when Jews feel like giving real equal rights to Palestinians will not jeopardize their safety and the sorts of changes just mentioned will lead to this. And I say ‘Temporarily’ because eventually our monopolistic “State”s will wither away more and more. The bottom line is that the quicker we can get influential people to understand freedom and spread its understanding the quicker we will be able to dismantle monopolistic government bureaucracies.

           

We will even be able to live forever! The medical sector, which is one of the most regulated and paralyzed of all, would begin to advance nearly as fast as the IT sector whose rapid progress we are all familiar with. Top google exec and science writer Ray Kurzweil who is 66 years old believes that soon we will be able to use drugs that can help us extend life and give more time for scientific breakthroughs which will eventually allow us to live forever. If he and other well informed people feel that there is a good chance that something like this can happen given the horrendously slow rate at which medical technology advances now, then I think there is a good chance that if the medical sector would progress many times faster that such breakthroughs will come.

 

