### The simple proof that we are slightly smarter apes who will destroy ourselves without understanding basic economics


Hayek explains:

>"We have never designed our economic system. We were not intelligent enough for that. We have stumbled into it and it has carried us to unforeseen heights and given rise to ambitions which may yet lead us to destroy it." [(Hayek F. A., 1981, p. 164)](https://books.google.com/books?id=9IpEBAAAQBAJ&pg=PA496&lpg=PA496&dq=%22We+have+never+designed+our+economic+system.+We+were+not+intelligent+enough+for+that.%22&source=bl&ots=unmrkCWHht&sig=ACfU3U3LTxMBTWY7xlzDtCXk_33E3TM_mQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjK8IzPs-7mAhUJvp4KHdyOB8UQ6AEwAHoECAgQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22We%20have%20never%20designed%20our%20economic%20system.%20We%20were%20not%20intelligent%20enough%20for%20that.%22&f=false)

With respect to private property:

>"…I am quite convinced nobody invented it for a known purpose, and to me the proof of this is that even now hardly anybody yet understands what the advantages of private property and the market society are." (Hayek essay "Individual and Collective Aims" published in "On Toleration" ISBN 0-19-827529-3)


Consider how hardly anyone in the world has the slightest clue regarding the fact that simply creating money is not the same thing as creating wealth and that rising prices are due to government/central bank money creation, and how it is that over and over and over and over again, something so simple and vital goes unnoticed leading to so much economic chaos. After WWI, the German government tried to do the impossible, provide enough wealth for veterans, numerous public sector bureaucracies, and ridiculous payments to the victors (France/England/etc.). They just printed the money leading to eventual hyperinflation where something that could be purchased with one German mark in July 1914 would cost 726,000,000,000 marks in Nov 1923. At times prices doubled every 49 hours. Graham writes:

>"The Reichsbank was finally reduced to making apologies for its inability to provide for a weekly output of more than several billion (or trillion) of marks of the required denomination and to an expression of its hope that this situation would be quickly remedied by an improvement in the speed of the printing presses! The printing presses did their bit. By the end of inflation the daily output of currency was over 400,000,000,000,000,000 marks.” [("Exchange, Prices, and Production in Hyper-inflation: Germany, 1920-1923", Graham, p. 35)](https://books.google.com/books?id=BF0x7c6IREkC&pg=PA35&lpg=PA35&dq=%22The+Reichsbank+was+finally+reduced+to+making+apologies+for+its+inability+to+provide+for+a+weekly+output+of+more%22&source=bl&ots=n8jWETIMGl&sig=ACfU3U1KkDsCtFmxv98YG9lebSq33W_y2A&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiKzIb69ffoAhVPoZ4KHQEnBBgQ6AEwAHoECAYQKQ#v=onepage&q=%22The%20Reichsbank%20was%20finally%20reduced%20to%20making%20apologies%20for%20its%20inability%20to%20provide%20for%20a%20weekly%20output%20of%20more%22&f=false)

Even more obvious and relevant to our current times and Coronavirus self-destruction, consider how just about every politician, mainstream economist, and member of the mainstream media is solidly under the illusion that the government sending checks to people can provide the necessary wealth to sustain everyone while they lose their jobs and stop producing and we wait and wait for this Coronavirus hysteria to subside. The government and leading experts are solidly behind this disastrous myth. It is not the result of some "conspiracy" to destroy society. It is simply the emergent behavior of complex factors/incentives/ignorance and the slightly smarter apes inadvertently destroying 'the market process' upon which their very lives depends on. 

