

### The roots of the Left/Right political divide

Given mankind's current ignorance of how the socioeconomic order works and has evolved(Mises/Hayek/etc. still not mainstream), which is something that has potentially little to do with race, it is quite understandable how various race-related fallacies which equate civilization with 'white people'/race, like British/European Imperialism and Nazism, dominated much of the last few centuries and are still very influential today. Certainly at least some much-hated "racist white men" believe that civilization and prosperity is somehow tied to their race and understandably so these people tend to be more against immigration for example. Here we can see the root of the political Left/Right divide that has the USSA on the brink of civil war. If you are going to have a civil war you need some simplistic ideas which can segregate/polarize the masses. To one economically ignorant horde of slightly smarter apes (the political "Left"/"Democrats"/"Liberals"), the political "Right"/"Republicans"/"Conservatives" is just the "racist white man who uses capitalism to exploit and maintain the status quo for his benefit and Donald Trump and all the other white 'conservative' leaders are the perfect embodiment of this fact". That's pretty much it. It is so-called "identity politics", where the "racist white man" oppresses or discriminates against various groups/"identities"(women/minorities) and overturning such supposed political/economic oppression is what is needed to fix the world's problems by sharing more wealth and funding social programs that treat everyone fairly/equitably. The fact that many whites understandably make the erroneous assumption that their blood/race was a very significant factor in the recent emergence of civilization only helps add fuel to the Left/Right polarization. Many whites/liberals, with the best of intentions, might be ashamed of the imperialist past of their ancestors or of the racism of their parents/uncles/etc. and erroneously believe that such a past/racism is a significant factor in the relative underachievement/problems of other groups/minorities. The stereotypical "Right"/"Republican"/"Conservative"/"white man", at least some of them, can be racist/xenophobic and thus understandably more opposed to immigration and really believe "he is better" due to the already mentioned fallacies. Both groups are wrong. Whatever "racism"  Although it is certainly true that there must be differences in mental ability just like there are differences in physical ones, whatever minute differences can exist are largely irrelevant. The explosion in relative human prosperity and technology mankind has stumbled upon during the last 200 years has little to do with biological differences and much more to do with the expansion of the global 'division of labor and information'/free-trade/competition/Capitalism, etc. If a human being can grow up and learn something as complex as a language, which can take even the brightest of people years to master, everyone has more than enough intelligence to understand the basics of how freedom and privatization are the keys to rapid socioeconomic progress. Clever economic education/marketing is obviously the key.
 
