### Einstein, Lenin and the Bolshevik Revolution

The slightly smarter apes have a good understanding of how to pee, shit, rape, and kill, but again, when it comes to anything related to the recently evolved 'market order'/'Social Organism'/economics, like the aforementioned money=wealth fallacy, or that war is the worst thing for mankind, the slightly smarter apes, including the "experts"/Krugmans/Keynes, are utterly clueless and rapidly drifting towards the final suicidal disaster as the Coronavirus scare is showing. Consider the following, right now you are an incredibly complex order, yet going without oxygen for a few minutes will cause a minor sort of “economic chaos” in your body that will make it impossible to recover from even if oxygen becomes available again. The same thing WILL happen to the social organism if the world-wide division of labor and monetary system breaks down, perhaps even for just a few weeks or less, or if a few key cities or financial institutions/system are disabled in either a cyber-attack or inevitable bug/error, or as we are seeing due to the Coronavirus because the apes scare themselves into paralysis. The US Federal Reserve and other major central banks have kept interest rates “artificially low” thus creating the illusion that there are more bricks and thus misaligning in unsustainable ways the entire global economy for over a decade. Just like Alan and the economically ignorant islanders felt it was best for Alan to create more money to continue to hire them to expand the castle otherwise there would be “chaos”, our central bankers and “experts” find themselves in a situation where they have to create tens of billions on a daily basis to prevent a much needed reordering which requires massive "bankruptcies". But again, to the economically ignorant slightly smarter apes, what can in reality be a quick reordering towards prosperity/profitability is seen as "chaos".


Again, we are slightly smarter tribal apes that have been "civilized" and turned into members of Spencer's "Social Organism" by the same process that turned solitary cells into complex multi-cellular organisms. "Processes of selective evolution". If every cell in our bodies suddenly had the same intelligence and ability to reason that we do, including our current understanding of biology, they would wake up to a bewildering complexity and attempt to use their "reason" to impose a supposedly superior plan/order and while doing so wrecking the far more intelligent systems that evolution/competition had fine-tuned for billions of years. The "reason" of so many intelligent and well educated intellectuals during the last couple of centuries led them to attack private property and the freedom that grows from it because they erroneously thought it led to 'exploitative capitalism', 'social injustices', and thought that central planning/regulation by well intentioned/educated "experts" would lead to far more prosperity. They were wrong of course, their "reason" proved to be far less intelligent than the evolved traditions which protected/invented "private property" and the 'market process' that emerged from it which hardly anyone at the time (or today) understood.

Albert Einstein is perhaps the perfect example of a "genius" who with the best of intentions would use his "reason" to provide what is essentially a recipe for the destruction of civilization via his economically ignorant push for 'central planning'/Socialism. In his 1949 article "Why Socialism?" he writes:

>"Technological progress frequently results in more unemployment rather than in an easing of the burden of work for all. The profit motive, in conjunction with competition among capitalists, is responsible for an instability in the accumulation and utilization of capital which leads to increasingly severe depressions. Unlimited competition leads to a huge waste of labor…I am convinced there is only one way to eliminate these grave evils, namely through the establishment of a socialist economy, accompanied by an educational system which would be oriented toward social goals. In such an economy, the means of production are owned by society itself and are utilized in a planned fashion. A planned economy, which adjusts production to the needs of the community, would distribute the work to be done among all those able to work and would guarantee a livelihood to every man, woman, and child." [(Einstein, 1949)](https://monthlyreview.org/2009/05/01/why-socialism/)

Numerous disastrous economic fallacies can be found above. "Technological progress" allows us to lower costs so more wealth can be created while consuming less thus growing the economic pie. Technological progress has made it so that on average a single worker in the agricultural sector, thanks to increasingly automated tractors/machinery, can create vast quantities of food and competition between such farmers guarantees that they must innovate and copy each other's innovations and that they must sell their food cheaply/competitively so now the masses have more wealth to spend in other sectors helping them grow, like the IT sector and everything else we now have since we don't have 80% of people working on farms like we did just a few centuries ago. The wealth that no longer sustains a job that has been lost to automation simply goes to sustain some other job, allowing us to easily afford more stuff, the stuff that got automated, plus the new stuff we spend our money/wealth on. Einstein is utterly clueless about the fact that the "accumulation" of wealth by savers and "the rich" just enters the banking/finance sector where "interest rate coordination" pairs such wealth with most profitable ideas.

As painful as it might be to admit for some, if Einstein can be so clueless, we can hardly blame Lenin, Stalin, Mao, Hitler, Roosevelt and the countless others for the misery they caused. As already mentioned, Mises had a profound understanding of this. Socialism/Communism/Nazism/'viral economic fallacies' did not spread and destroy much of the 20th century because of a few bad apples or tyrants; it first spread through the minds of well-meaning citizens and intellectuals like Einstein which then gave the future leaders the moral and intellectual justification for their actions. Hayek writes:

>"It is necessary to realize that the sources of many of the most harmful agents in this world are often not evil men but high-minded idealists, and that in particular the foundations of totalitarian barbarism have been laid by honourable and well-meaning scholars who never recognized the offspring they produced." (Hayek F. A., 1973, p. 70)

>"Most people are still unwilling to face the most alarming lesson of modern history: that the greatest crimes of our time have been committed by governments that had the enthusiastic support of millions of people who were guided by moral impulses. It is simply not true that Hitler or Mussolini, Lenin or Stalin, appealed only to the worst instincts of their people: they also appealed to some of the feelings which also dominate contemporary democracies." (Hayek F. A., 1976, p. 134)

Voltaire, who according to Hayek was "the greatest representative of the so-called 'Age of Reason'" (Hayek F. A., 1985, p. 5) captured the spirit of the last few centuries by saying "if you want good laws, burn those you have and make yourself new ones". Just a couple of generations after Voltaire, Charles Darwin's discovery of evolution would make it even easier for man to discard God/religion and its numerous productive morals/rules/etc. It was this overall increase in man's ability to understand the world, the belief that science and technology would usher in a new way to socially engineer mankind for the better, coupled with the growing complexity of the social order and the viral economic fallacies that grew from it, that changed government from an entity that was supposed to protect the supposedly God-given rights of man to an entity that could be used to engineer (centrally plan) society for the better. But to engineer society one inevitably has to curb the freedom of the individual in order to implement the social engineer/government's plans. As Adam Smith said with respect to the 'social engineer'/leader/politician or what he refers to as "the man of system":

>"The man of system, on the contrary, is apt to be very wise in his own conceit; and is often so enamoured with the supposed beauty of his own ideal plan of government, that he cannot suffer the smallest deviation from any part of it. He goes on to establish it completely and in all its parts, without any regard either to the great interests, or to the strong prejudices which may oppose it. He seems to imagine that he can arrange the different members of a great society with as much ease as the hand arranges the different pieces upon a chess-board. He does not consider that the pieces upon the chess-board have no other principle of motion besides that which the hand impresses upon them; but that, in the great chess-board of human society, every single piece has a principle of motion of its own, altogether different from that which the legislature might chuse to impress upon it. If those two principles coincide and act in the same direction, the game of human society will go on easily and harmoniously, and is very likely to be happy and successful. If they are opposite or different, the game will go on miserably, and the society must be at all times in the highest degree of disorder." (Smith, p. VI.II.42)

Vladimir Lenin, that architect of the Soviet Union, was "the man of system". As he tried hard to give a more "just" and "equal" order to the Russian order via government planning as opposed to letting the market process and individual economic freedom do so, he acknowledged and said the following, which seems like the perfect and unfortunate compliment to Adam Smith's recent quote/wisdom:

>"The machine refused to obey the hand that guided it. It was like a car that was going not in the direction the driver desired, but in the direction someone else desired; as if it were being driven by some mysterious, lawless hand, God knows whose, perhaps of a profiteer, or of a private capitalist, or of both. Be that as it may, the car is not going quite in the direction that the man at the wheel imagines, and often goes in an altogether different direction." (Lenin)

Lenin, as well as most of us, believed that ["the key feature is people, the proper choice of people"](https://www.marxists.org/archive/lenin/works/1922/mar/27.htm), and if we could just have the right people with the right values government/central management would work. But Lenin was wrong of course, it is not so much the individual cells/people that matter, it is the system, it is freedom. So we can see how Natural Selection, which selects for order, and thus the information/systems that can sustain/create order, wiped out Communism like any other belief system that leads to inferior knowledge/order. Hayek writes:

>"Among the founders of religions over the last two thousand years, many opposed property and the family. But the only religions that have survived are those which support property and the family. Thus the outlook for communism, which is both anti-property and anti-family(and also anti-religion), is not promising. For it is, I believe, itself a religion which had its time, and which is now declining rapidly. In communist and socialist countries we are watching how the natural selection of religious beliefs disposes of the maladapted" (Hayek, "The Fatal Conceit" 1989, p. 137)

It is monumentally important that we see Communism/'Central Planning' and Lenin's Bolshevik Revolution as an almost inevitable spread of viral self-reinforcing economic fallacies and incentives that were just bound to finally spark in a truly sustainable reaction. A young idealistic Russian could worry about how to make a good living in the always-uncertain and competitive private sector, or by joining Lenin and his Bolsheviks he could become a hero to mankind by just forcing farmers to give up their grain to feed a bureaucracy/monopoly of "experts" who would plan a superior order. Sign me up! Again, we must focus on how the ideas lead the slightly smarter apes into either carnage or civilization. Mises:

>"It is ideas that group men into fighting factions, that press the weapons into their hands, and that determine against whom and for whom the weapons shall be used. It is they alone, and not arms, that, in the last analysis, turn the scales."

Lenin was a "great leader" who had the "strength" to carry out his vision. An example of one of the orders he was sending to various cities/districts to deal with farmers (kulaks) who were rebelling against the grain requisitions went as follows:

>“Comrades! The kulak uprising in your five districts must be crushed without pity. The interests of the whole revolution demand such actions, for the final struggle with the kulaks has now begun. You must make an example of these people. (1) Hang (I mean hang publicly, so that people see it) at least 100 kulaks, rich bastards, and known blood-suckers. (2) Publish their names. (3) Seize all their grain. (4) Single out the hostages per my instructions in yesterday’s telegram. Do all this so that for miles around people see it all. Understand it, tremble, and tell themselves that we are killing the bloodthirsty kulaks and that we will continue to do so. Reply saying you have received and carried out these instructions. Yours, Lenin. P.S. Find tougher people.” (Panne, et al., p. 72)"

The unproductive chaos/tyranny that Lenin was creating inevitably brought a gigantic famine that would claim about 5 million lives in 1921 and 1922. The majestic “The Black Book of Communism: Crimes, Terror, Repression” explains:

>“Despite the bad harvest of 1920…All grain stocks, even the seed for the future harvest, had been seized. Numerous peasants had virtually nothing to eat since January 1921. The mortality rate had immediately increased in February. In the space of two to three months, riots and revolts against the regime had effectively stopped in the province of Samara. “Today,” Vavilin explained, “there are no more revolts. We see new phenomena instead: crowds of thousands of starving people gather around the Executive Committee or the Party headquarters of the soviet to wait, for days and days, for the miraculous appearance of the food they need. It is impossible to chase this crowd away, and every day more of them die. They are dropping like flies…I think there must be at least 900,000 starving people in this province.” … “Though perfectly well informed of the inevitable consequences of the requisitioning policy, the government took no steps to combat these predicted effects. On 30 July 1921, while famine gripped a growing number of regions, Lenin and Molotov sent a telegram to all leaders of regional and provincial Party committees asking them to “bolster the mechanisms for food collection…step up the propaganda for the rural population, explaining the economic and political importance of the prompt payment of taxes…put at the disposal of the agencies for the collection of taxes in kind all the authority of the Party, and allow them to use all the disciplinary measures that the state itself would use.”” (Panne, et al., pp. 120-1)

Fortunately other Bolshevik leaders helped Lenin accept relief from international organizations like the Red Cross, the Quakers, and future US President Herbert Hoover’s American Relief Association whose combined efforts fed a whopping 11 million people each day. Lenin’s anti-market thus anti-production and thus anti-life/order government-control-measures where such a disaster that by 1921 Lenin scaled some of it back in what was called the NEP (New Economic Policy). The NEP essentially reintroduced some levels of private property/enterprise, especially for farmers/kulaks, which immediately led to a better functioning of the market process and substantial increases in food production (40% increase for 1921-22). 

Among the numerous things to learn from this and similar disasters is the fact that it is understandably difficult for ideologues like Lenin and his governmental structure to change their minds since not only do they have to admit to error but also realize that they have caused unimaginable suffering. This is just the kind of stuff the slightly smarter apes don't do that often. The incentives are to look the other way, or place the blame elsewhere. Even though Lenin was becoming aware of the chaos he was causing, he understandably had incentives to look for other causes, like saboteurs, the rich/'capitalist exploiters', the religious/church who did not want to relinquish power/authority etc. It was his economic policies that were intensifying the misery, but he would just double-down further intensifying it. Even though plenty of people knew Communism would bring about unimaginable suffering, the rate at which the economic ignorance/fallacies and perverse incentives appealed to the tribalistic smarter apes was much faster than the rate at which proper arguments against it could spread. One could say that the definitive knockout blow that proved the impossibility of central planning did not even exist until Ludwig von Mises wrote his ["Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth"](https://mises.org/library/economic-calculation-socialist-commonwealth) in 1920, far away and in a foreign language. Without sound economic arguments which were also brief enough to be somewhat viral much of mankind was doomed. The religious traditions of looking at the world's problems as the result of "good" vs. "evil" did not work with the atheistic Socialists/Communists who thanks to scientific progress could easily discard deity-based arguments, in other words, mankind was stuck in what Mises earlier referred to as "the moral sphere". We must quote again: "The rigid dogmatism peculiar to religious groups and to Marxism results only in irreconcilable conflict. It condemns beforehand all dissenters as evildoers, it calls into question their good faith, it asks them to surrender unconditionally. No social cooperation is possible where such an attitude prevails." Thus the ideological battle between the atheistic 'central planning by experts' viral fallacies and inherited religious traditions continued, with religion, private property, and thus humanity, suffering immensely. In the period between 1927 and 1940, the number of Orthodox Churches in the Soviet Union fell from 29,584 to less than 500. The Soviet Union’s anti-religion purges were equal-opportunity, in 1917 there were over 20,000 Islamic mosques in the Soviet Union, by 1935 there would be less than 60. Thousands of priests would stick to their faith and quickly be shot. The atheistic nature of the Soviet Union obviously played a role in making it so much easier to discard human life and thus tremendously deadlier. 
 
In February 25th 1956 Stalin’s successor Nikita Khrushchev shook the world by admitting that "the Great Terror", a political witch-hunt that Stalin carried out (1936-38) and led to the execution of about 700,000 people had been based on lies/exaggerations/etc. He had to wait till Stalin's death to admit this "mistake", however, it was not till Mikhail Gorbachev in 1991 that enough doubt and dissent emerged within the political structure and public in the USSR to finally put an end to the more textbook communist/socialist intellectual error and resulting perverse incentives and relative tyranny that ruled that area since 1918. But the challenge did not end there, how do you get millions of people who have spent generations looking at a single bureaucracy to manage the social order and at least keep them alive to abandon that 'order maker' and trust freedom and competition?

The Bolshevik calamity and current Coronavirus one are both outgrowths of the same economic ignorance and tribalistic tyranny the slightly smarter apes are easily prone to. Today we find ourselves in a similar situation, ideologues like Bill Gates, Fauci and the World Health Organization are simply under the spell of a toxic mixture of economic fallacies and incentives that are resulting in an even more draconian paralysis. More on these important parallels soon.


