
Having discussed several aspects of the market process like economic competition and interest rates, as well as how 'private property' inadvertently leads to its emergence and civilization, we can now discuss how 'processes of selective evolution' evolved the 'market process'/'Social Organism' without conscious human planning or design. As Carl Menger asks:

>"How can it be that institutions that serve the common welfare and are extremely significant for its development come into being without a common will directed towards establishing [them?"](https://cdn.mises.org/Investigations%20into%20the%20Method%20of%20the%20Social%20Sciences_5.pdf) 

Hayek answered this monumentally important question more or less as follows. If we envision mankind about 50,000 years ago, we would see a sort of petri-dish of competing cultures(languages/concepts/rules/laws) that are being 'naturally selected' based on their ability to grow the groups that contain them relative to other groups. Customs/concepts/rules/etc. that inadvertently cause their respective social orders to grow whether it'd be via conquest, successful defense, migration into, imitation, etc., will expand their order AND the very customs/concepts/rules/ideologies/etc. which helped them thrive. Every rule/law has an effect in the productivity/growth/survival of a social order. Given that a society/tribe is likely to have dozens of such rules it is impossible to know the exact impact of any one of them when considering the overall competitiveness of a society/order. For simplicity's sake let us focus on just one rule, what is the optimal punishment for theft? Let's assume that in culture/tribe 'A' when a man steals he is killed which might deter many thefts but decreases the number of people in the group and all the productivity that this person might contribute in the future. In tribe 'B' they cut off a hand, and in tribe 'C' 10 lashes. Let's assume that tribe A's custom/rule of killing the thief actually proved to lead to a "fitter" social order. Perhaps it turns out that cutting off the hand led to an unproductive person that became a big drain on rest of tribe and a weak/useless fighter when it came to offense/defense so it was better if he was dead, and that lashes proved to not be enough of a deterrent which led to many thefts and retaliatory violence which turned out to be more costly than losing a member of the tribe. For simplicity's sake let us assume that this was by far the most important custom/rule affecting the growth/fitness of the social order, and that because of this, tribe/culture 'A' eventually displaced the others so that its kill-thieves rule/custom survived while the other punishments disappeared. The kill-thieves rule, is the result of human action, yet not the result of conscious human planning or design with the reasoned or conscious goal of having a more competitive/fit social order. The real designing of this rule or cultural element was made, not by innate instinct or human reason, but by 'natural selection'/competition/'group selection'/'cultural evolution'.

This concept of 'cultural evolution'/'group selection' allowed Hayek to identify a sort of 'third dimension'/source/mechanism for discovering/spreading knowledge which was neither instinctual (tied to our genetics/biology), nor the result of our conscious reason. As Hayek liked to refer to it, it was a mechanism for creating/spreading information which laid "between instinct and reason" and is the largely unknown/understood source of knowledge that played the vital role in the evolution of the market process and those related social institutions. Omnipresence, the ability to be everywhere at all times is another concept that would provide a great benefit to religions that used it to describe their God. Without God's omnipresence you could get away with breaking the rules that give society order and only have to face the consequences brought upon by fellow men. But if God is everywhere, watching your every move, you will be much more likely to follow those rules that give your society a productive social order. A similar case can be made for the concepts of "sin" and "evil". Did clever men "conspire" to create our religions to control us? Of course not, like the 'market process' they too "are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design". These concepts/rules help enforce constraints on what for brevity's sake we'll refer to as our evolved tribalistic('small group')/primate-like nature/instincts, which for millions of years were shaped by things like cannibalism, rape, what today would be considered pedophilia, tribal warfare and other practices which are now generally seen as abhorrent and whose relatively recent suppression via culture/religion/law enabled the emergence of the 'Social Organism'/civilization. Growing up is about programming/molding our flexible brains into learning all of these rules and thus rewiring them to be as happy as possible even though many of these restrictions go counter to our 'uncivilized instincts'. We have tentacle porn, Q.E.D. Obviously the molding/brainwashing fails quite often when we engage in rape/torture/militarism/war/"sin" and more. One can easily speculate about how the simplicity and pro-private-property character of Judaism's Ten Commandments ('Thou shalt not steal/murder/'commit adultery'/ 'covet(neighbor's…)) and monotheism helped it be more 'viral' and thus be 'naturally selected' over other beliefs/religions that might have been more complex/confusing/contradictory and also be less respectful of private property thus inadvertently foregoing the emergence of the market process and corresponding 'Social Organism'/Civilization. 

Rules relating to sex are crucial given the biological importance and potential turmoil relating to it. Some form of marriage custom has evolved to help deal with this and currently the ‘one man’/‘one woman’ rule has been the winning strategy for most cultures, but it is impossible to predict that this arrangement is the best thing for mankind going forward. We certainly know that biologically we are polyamorous and much more like our primate cousins the chimpanzees and bonobos. Fake boobs, genetic engineering coming down the line, birth control, women’s freedom and who-knows-what-else-the-future-holds makes predicting what might emerge impossible. Thanks to the large amounts of wealth, safety, and tolerance that our modern societies now provide, even a single mother can easily provide for her children helping reach a new level of individualism that can make breaking away from the traditional family structure possible. Not that we are encouraging this. Preferably it is the freedom of each person to evaluate what is in his/her best interest that guides this evolution from the bottom up instead of various coercive/controlling schemes the economically ignorant falls for. Our ever-changing societies will lead to changes whose repercussions we will never be able to fully predict, as Hayek wrote: 

 “Man is not and never will be the master of his fate: his very reason always progresses by leading him into the unknown and unforeseen where he learns new things” (Hayek F. A., 1981, p. 176)

Morals have a lot to do with enforcing the sort of equality that leads to a stable social order. Traditional morals shun showing off and laying praise on qualities that cannot be shared or possessed by everyone. According to traditional morals if you have beautiful daughters, you don’t raise them to take advantage of their looks, on the contrary, it is considered virtuous to forego those advantages that most cannot have. Daddy’s little princes is groomed to be more virtuous, her beauty is like an extra special gift that should go to a man that has done great things for society; to the doctor, the respected member of the community, etc. And definitely not get knocked up by the local playboy who doesn’t have a job but uses his charm and good looks, something that does not add value to society and might not be possessed by others giving him an “unfair” advantage. By doing this sort of thing we create an environment that helps mold us into liking things that everyone can achieve and encourage productivity while disliking things that are not conducive to everyone’s happiness and leads to potentially unproductive habits. If we put too much emphasis on looks then there will be a small number of more beautiful people who set a standard for what is preferred that most cannot achieve, and given the way our minds work, how they are constantly making associations between traits, mannerisms, etc, and what is considered best, an increasing number of people fall into the pattern where they will be unhappy because they cannot associate themselves with that which the trendsetters are creating. This is the kind of thing that makes some fear genetic engineering and the legalization of steroids/prostitution/etc. We fear that suddenly many people will want to look a lot better, or some particular “look” becomes the ideal and the rest of us will either have to go along or have our kids grow up in an environment where they are relatively uglier and less associated with those characteristics that are considered attractive/successful. Any setting where we are associated with qualities that are not as good as those of others naturally make us feel a little uncomfortable, especially if everyone around us considers those qualities to be important. We tend to measure our success relative to others and for obvious reasons we tend to avoid such situations. A modern example of this is the online social sites like Facebook where a sort of subconscious popularity contest seems to drive much of what goes on. We just want to be associated with that which is considered fun and cool or praised by our culture. As we age, we have even less incentive to show off our looks and have a culture that places so much emphasis on looks etc., so older folks play a noticeable role in creating a cultural ambiance that also shuns such inequalities. We also praise hard work, self-reliance, and professional achievement. These are things that everyone can achieve and lead to a more productive society. Religion greatly helps here as well. We are all equal under the eyes of God(at least the large Islam/Christianity), so that too helps us associate great qualities that are held by everyone. We teach our children to try to put themselves in other people’s shoes, this way we can perhaps feel some of the pain our actions might have on others and hopefully this exercise will once again motivate us to act, live, and praise those things that everyone can excel at and have good consequences for society.

These "traditional morals" which are pretty universal and shared by grandparents of Americans, Chinese, Arabs, etc. have worked pretty well. For most of our evolution life was not about how “cool” your partner was, you just looked forward to having one and having enough wealth so that your children were well fed. People who deviated from these morals were quickly shunned and seen as selfish or "sinners", etc. They can/are/will change but what really matters is whether they lead to a competitive order the produces more than it consumes. Some people mistakenly believe that if certain traditions or social norms "break down" society will suffer greatly, but this will not be the case if people understand basic economics.

Just like natural selection modified solitary cells to have tumor suppressing genes to control rapid cell division/proliferation (cancer) in order to cooperate in a multi-cellular organism, so has cultural evolution likewise molded homo sapiens to suppress these "uncivilized" animalistic barbaric tendencies. As Hayek tells us:

>"Man has been civilized very much against his wishes. It was the price he had to pay for being able to raise a larger number of children. We especially dislike the economic disciplines… The indispensable rules of the free society require from us much that is unpleasant, such as suffering competition from others, seeing others being richer than ourselves, etc., etc." [(Hayek "Law, Legislation and Liberty, Volume 3: The Political Order of a Free People" 1981, p. 168)](https://books.google.com/books?id=malYAQAAQBAJ&pg=RA2-PA168&lpg=RA2-PA168&dq=such+as+suffering+competition+from+others,+seeing+others+being+richer+than+ourselves&source=bl&ots=kU2cMHmM0M&sig=ACfU3U1ebW7PN3x-KT4wq6sAFW2yairvrQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjzsbHQ4fDoAhVgmHIEHcT4BXoQ6AEwAXoECAQQLw#v=onepage&q=such%20as%20suffering%20competition%20from%20others%2C%20seeing%20others%20being%20richer%20than%20ourselves&f=false)

>"Constraints on the practices of the small group, it must be emphasized and repeated, are hated. For as we shall see, the individual following them, even though he depend on them for life, does not and usually cannot understand how they function or how they benefit him."…"Disliking these constraints so much, we hardly can be said to have selected them; rather, these constraints selected us: they enabled us to survive." [(Hayek "The Fatal Conceit", 1989, p. 14)](https://books.google.com/books?id=YQLYAQAAQBAJ&pg=PA14&lpg=PA14&dq=%22these+constraints+selected+us:+they+enabled+us+to+survive%22+the+fatal+conceit&source=bl&ots=OdrpACtIP1&sig=ACfU3U0Xx2-a-ItEjsfQyz7doxdiri__IA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjWl8qH4vDoAhUcmnIEHZcVA1sQ6AEwA3oECA8QLw#v=onepage&q=%22these%20constraints%20selected%20us%3A%20they%20enabled%20us%20to%20survive%22%20the%20fatal%20conceit&f=false)
