
### Cultural, not Biological Evolution is the key and the roots of the Left/Right political divide.

We must stress the fact that the cultural evolutionary process which has created 'the market process' is much, much faster than the slow genetic biological evolution thus rendering slight genetic differences between races/populations largely irrelevant. As Hayek tells us:

>"With respect to what we mean by cultural evolution in a narrower sense, that is, the fast and accelerating development of civilization…Since it differs from genetic evolution by relying on the transmission of acquired properties, it is very fast, and once it dominates, it swamps genetic evolution" [(Hayek "Law, Legislation and Liberty, Volume 3: The Political Order of a Free People" 1981, p. 156)](https://books.google.com/books?id=9IpEBAAAQBAJ&pg=PA489&lpg=PA489&dq=%22With+respect+to+what+we+mean+by+cultural+evolution+in+a+narrower+sense,+that+is,+the+fast+and+accelerating%22&source=bl&ots=unmroxTPbu&sig=ACfU3U1hRwunoRJDJ9cd_DAAu0YcZ-uEoA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjZkY6Hw_jmAhWBMX0KHbatDF4Q6AEwAHoECAYQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22With%20respect%20to%20what%20we%20mean%20by%20cultural%20evolution%20in%20a%20narrower%20sense%2C%20that%20is%2C%20the%20fast%20and%20accelerating%22&f=false)

Also:

>"…biological evolution would have been far too slow to alter or replace man's innate responses in the course of the ten or twenty thousand years during which civilisation has developed…. Thus it hardly seems possible that civilisation and culture are genetically determined and transmitted. They have to be learnt by all alike through tradition." (Hayek's 'The Fatal Conceit' page 16)

As numerous great free-market thinkers like Mises, [Robert Higgs](https://mises.org/library/rise-west), and [Ralph Raico](https://mises.org/library/european-miracle-0) just to name a few have shown, during the last couple thousand years different groups of people in widely dispersed locations like, the Middle East, Asia, and Europe, traded the sort of title for most socioeconomically advanced places in the planet. Mises makes this point and criticizes people who focus on race:

>"But it is by all means an unsatisfactory answer to say that a genius owes his greatness to his ancestry or to his race. The question is precisely why such a man differs from his brothers and from the other members of his race. It is a little bit less faulty to attribute the great achievements of the white race to racial superiority. Yet this is no more than vague hypothesis which is at variance with the fact that the early foundations of civilization were laid by peoples of other races. We cannot know whether or not at a later date other races will supplant Western civilization."

With respect to the momentary lead in terms of civilization that China had, and the real reason why whites/Europeans had a recent relative lead, Hayek writes:

>"…the history of China provides many instances of government attempts to enforce so perfect an order that innovation became impossible. This country, technologically and scientifically developed so far ahead of Europe that, to give only one illustration, it had ten oil wells operating on one stretch of the river Po already in the twelfth century, certainly owed its later stagnation, but not its early progress, to the manipulatory power of its governments. What led the greatly advanced civilisation of China to fall behind Europe was its government's clamping down so tightly as to leave no room for new developments, while, as remarked in the last chapter, Europe probably owes its extraordinary expansion in the Middle Ages to its political anarchy" [(Hayek's 'The Fatal Conceit' page 44)](https://books.google.com/books?id=YQLYAQAAQBAJ&pg=PA45&lpg=PA45&dq=%22Europe+probably+owes+its+extraordinary+expansion+in+the+Middle+Ages+to+its+political+anarchy%22&source=bl&ots=OdrpACuIRZ&sig=ACfU3U0bJQJuY3PuMN0tExE9cXiIi_mO7Q&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjH94Xs5fDoAhW8knIEHWHYBS4Q6AEwBHoECAsQOA#v=onepage&q=%22Europe%20probably%20owes%20its%20extraordinary%20expansion%20in%20the%20Middle%20Ages%20to%20its%20political%20anarchy%22&f=false)

Given mankind's lack of familiarity with the aforementioned concepts, it is quite understandable how various race-related fallacies which equate civilization with white people/race, like British/European Imperialism and Nazism, dominated much of the last few centuries and are still very influential under the covers. Here we can see the root of the political Left/Right divide that has the USSA on the brink of civil war. If you are going to have a civil war you need some simplistic ideas which can segregate/polarize the masses. To one economically ignorant horde of slightly smarter apes (the political "Left"/"Democrats"), the political "Right"/"Republicans" is just the "racist white-man who uses capitalism to exploit and maintain the status quo for his benefit and Donald Trump is the perfect embodiment of this fact". That's pretty much it. It is so-called "identity politics", where the "racist white man" opresses or discriminates against various groups/"identities" and overturning such supposed political/economic opression is what is needed to fix the world's problems. The fact that many whites understandably make the erroneous assumption that their blood/race was a very significant factor in the recent emergence of civilization only helps add fuel to the Left/Right polarization. Many whites/liberals, with the best of intentions, might be ashamed of the imperialist past of their ancestors or of the racism of their parents/uncles/etc. and erroneously believe that such a past/racism is a significant factor in the relative underachievement/problems of other groups/minorities. Both groups are wrong. Although it is certainly true that there must be differences in mental ability just like there are differences in physical ones, these minute differences are largely irrelevant. The explosion in relative human prosperity and technology mankind has stumbled upon during the last 200 years has little to do with biological differences and much more to do with the expansion of the global 'division of labor and information'/free-trade/competition/Capitalism, etc. If a human being can grow up and learn something as complex as a language, which can take even the brightest of people years to master, everyone has more than enough intelligence to understand the basics of how freedom and privatization are the keys to rapid socioeconomic progress. Clever economic education/marketing is obviously the key.

Whatever "racism" the relatively wealthier "white man" has plays a negligible factor compared to the horrendous economic ignorance that plagues everyone, especially the black community. In a very Hayekian twist of fate, one of those things that is "indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design", racism towards blacks and thus the desire to not share wealth with them was/is a significant factor in America's realative rejection of Communist/Socialist ideology. Had the USA of the early 1900s had a more homogeneous all-white population like Europeans had, Socialist/Communist ideology would have spread much much faster like it did in Europe and likely succeed in turning the USA into a Soviet Union-like communist state with disastrous consequences for the entire world.

