### Ideas Leading to the Final Disaster: Coronavirus, WWIII


Let us now discuss the disastrous fallacies which are increasingly dominating the thinking of the fellow hordes of slightly smarter apes and their leaders/"experts" which will soon lead to the destruction of civilization if those of us who have had the miraculous luck of stumbling upon Mises/Hayek/friends fail in spreading their wisdom. The root of all of our problems is obviously economic ignorance which eventually manifests itself in various socioeconomic "diseases"/wars and oppression needed to get everyone to go along with "the plan" that will fix the problems/Coronavirus/etc. This is similar to how our faulty diets eventually cause imbalances in the body that manifest themselves in various physical diseases. 

The Coronavirus scare is simply another manifestation of the economic ignorance which led to the Bolshevik revolution but carried out in slightly different circumstances. In addition to all the fallacies which motivated Lenin which are still tremendously popular(democratic socialism), we now have some little-understood pathogen/virus which is motivating a complete paralysis of production which in a pure economic/real sense is not much different than the paralysis of production Lenin caused and will inevitably bring about a similar chaos. However, due to the lack of efficient and quick communication/mobilization in Russia during Lenin's time(1918), it took him months and years for the economic damage to reach famine proportions. Things are different this time, within a few short weeks, a significant portion of the world-wide population has been ignorantly coerced into paralysis which will bring socioeconomic chaos much faster. The very same cluster of errors and incentives that led to the Bolshevik/USSR disaster are playing themselves out again in much of the world. There is also the usual economic ignorance and tribalism that eventually causes politicians to both increase paralysis of economy as they intervene and also blame other countries as is clearly the case with the USA becoming increasingly hostile towards China with tariffs/etc. The Environmentalist mindset and its fallacies which also leads to central planning and the desire/need for some calamity to limit human population also continues to spread. And of course there is the most disastrous fallacy of all, that some kind of world war is what will be needed or inevitable.

Regarding Coronavirus, regardless of the actual scientific details of the pathogen it is obvious by now that the lethality is hardly different than a regular flu. This was admitted by the slightly smarter ape who can be seen as today's Lenin, Anthony Fauci who is "Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases", a top-down-paralyzing-competition-immune bureaucracy. After being one of the first top officials to greatly exaggerate the lethality of the potential pathogen, eventually he co-authored a paper which admitted:

>"the case fatality rate may be considerably less than 1%. This suggests that the overall clinical consequences of Covid-19 may ultimately be more akin to those of a severe seasonal influenza (which has a case fatality rate of approximately 0.1%) or a pandemic influenza (similar to those in 1957 and 1968) rather than a disease similar to SARS or MERS, which have had case fatality rates of 9 to 10% and 36%, [respectively."](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe2002387?fbclid=IwAR3fpLEIqWDWukdkIvCsnWB9PCeK5hmHzTYhPK7NzFIOs9ORm3IWP61cFR4)

But even the above numbers hide the relative harmlessness of whatever is causing this so-called epidemic. For example, in [Italy](https://www.epicentro.iss.it/coronavirus/bollettino/Report-COVID-2019_20_marzo_eng.pdf?fbclid=IwAR2xLHsmL_R3vKjoUOonuu5sUPZiB0VB2xH3k3vI7tq3o8cShnwTeWXNhYM), which was a hotbed of hysteria, the average age of people who died and had the virus was 78 years old, and on average people had almost 3 other diseases, only 1.2% of the already old weren’t considered to have other illnesses. It is also important to notice how many were taking all kinds of drugs whose side-effects are often-times what kills them, especially more dangerous anti-viral drugs etc. In [England figures have been similar](https://news.sky.com/video/covid-19-how-do-figures-of-virus-deaths-compare-to-a-normal-year-11964813?fbclid=IwAR2b7ifXRjnbt-eL8oBPLeUhgYj6kLHK5BKNG5xXwrMtq8VXcQ4SATJ1dBo), 98% were elderly with other medical conditions, their "experts" now predict that only 20,000 people out of a total population of 56 million people will die with the virus, yet they also wisely estimate that 2/3 of those people would have died anyway from some other cause leading to an estimate of about 6-10K deaths due to virus for the year.  

How do we discover the truth? How do we discover superior information? How do we discover whether Fauci is right or wrong? Competition of course. Fortunately, although Fauci gets to play Lenin in the USSA, there is still competition between different countries, so the runaway complex of fallacies and perverse incentives that are quickly crippling the USSA are not doing the same in other countries that have rightly/wisely chosen not to do the counterproductive/draconian economic paralysis. Countries like the Netherlands, Japan, Brazil, South Korea, Iceland, and more. Here we should once again remind ourselves of the unintended harms of government(forced intellectual monopoly), especially world government organizations like the World Health Organization. Their rules/regulations/laws are discovered via the usual mixture of human tribalism/nationalism, economic ignorance, all kinds of special interests, corruption, and so much more. There is no competition, no voting with your feet once the laws apply to the entire world. Government stamps out competition which is the main selective process that helps us figure out what is really best for us, not just in terms of how to go about providing goods and services but what rules/laws lead to the most prosperity as well. As Hayek tells us “…selection by evolution is prevented by government monopolies that make competitive experimentation impossible.” (Hayek F. A., 1989, p. 103)[205] 

The perverse incentives that are helping the economic errors spread are astounding, everyone who works for or is highly dependent on the government is motivated to keep the shutdown going because their wealth is not affected by it, it is a sort of vacation for most of them. Public teachers, universities, etc. It is the private sector, which must compete and is dependent on the freedom of people which is being destroyed, but the horde is of course impervious to the fact that it is the private sector that creates wealth which the public sector then gets to coerce/consume. Countless bureaucrats at all level of government see this as an opportunity to be heroes, get attention, act, grow their budgets, bring about their always "socialist" schemes causing even more dependence on government by the clueless public who more and more sees government/monopoly as the only way to coordinate society. The government believes it can just add the needed "liquidity" to keep the economy going, send checks to people when the virus passes. This is simply allowing people to abandon the urgency and to continue to consume thus shrinking the economic pie more when they should be motivated to end this paralysis immediately. 


