

#### How to fix America and the world in 3 months and live forever

If we are to quickly save mankind and reach the prosperity we are truly capable of, we must find/join a group of people who are thoroughly convinced that such quick prosperity can be achieved. We must become such beacons of hope and economic education and also have the same sort of idealistic optimism that can attract others. 

So what are some concrete steps that can be taken to quickly turn America around and fix the whole world with it?

First, since the main “enemy” is economic ignorance, libertarians and like-minded people should plan accordingly. There are erroneous ideas in people’s minds, somehow we have to come up with a way to reach the public at large and teach them the right concepts. Teaching the basics of how inflation works and how it is that central banks are what cause prices to rise should be a key. I’ll call this the “Henry Hazlitt” plan. He wrote in an essay titled “The Task Confronting Libertarians”[522]:

“This brings me, finally, to one more single issue on which all those libertarians who lack the time or background for specialized study can effectively concentrate. This is in demanding that the government provide an honest currency, and that it stop inflating.

This issue has the inherent advantage that it can be made clear and simple because fundamentally it is clear and simple. All inflation is government made. All inflation is the result of increasing the quantity of money and credit; and the cure is simply to halt the increase.”

YES!!!

1)     Teaching the basics of inflation is easy and can thus be learned quickly. “If the price of everything goes up there must be more money, right? And who creates the money? The FED/central banks.”

2)      It puts the focus on the central banks which are the great enablers of so much government and thus socioeconomic decline.

3)     It makes mainstream economists look like: either the fools that they are, or blatantly corrupt liars, for blaming rising prices on other factors like a rise in the price of oil, or whatever, when it is obvious that it is central bank money creation that is the main culprit.


We also need a sense of both urgency and excitement, the kind of excitement and enthusiasm eminent in someone who believes and understands that a worldwide libertarian revolution can happen very soon. Those of us who know better, know that freedom is the key to everything. It is far better to “fight” for a better understanding of economics which will lead to more freedom than for, say a cure for cancer, because it is freedom and its inevitable technological progress that will bring the cancer cure and the same thinking applies to everything. There are people needlessly dying, suffering in pain, and only those of us who understand freedom and work to spread its understanding are in a position to really make a difference. Sometimes I think Libertarianism would benefit from some kind of Libertarian prayer, something to read/recite every day when one wakes up to remind one of the importance of teaching how freedom works. One cannot blame the ignorant politicians and public, if someone can be blamed somewhat, it is those that actually understand how freedom works but simply don’t do enough to spread its understanding.

 Before continuing let us once again remind ourselves that the public sector at the Federal, State, and municipal levels, coupled with the increased costs and inefficiencies due to regulations, cause over 50% of all wealth that is created to be consumed in ways that add little in exchange or compared to the freer alternative. If we can quickly reduce this to 10% this means that the additional 40% of wealth, instead of being consumed to add little to no wealth as in the case of the millions of people employed by the Military for example, will still be consumed by the soon to be ex-military-related personnel, but this time society will get in exchange a tremendous amount of wealth back, that which the ex-military personnel now produce by being members of the private sector, causing the economic pie to grow by about 40% in a single year causing living standards to go up tremendously[526]. The more wealth there is the more will inevitably have to be offered in exchange for labor thus increasing people’s wages and standard of living. The sooner we privatize and abolish our monopolistic public sector bureaucracies and regulations, the more chaotic it will seem, but thanks to the right understanding of economics, people will know that that which will look like chaos will actually be the market process quickly ordering labor and resources in the most productive way. In the section in Chapter 4 titled “Overcoming the fear of massive layoffs in the public sector and understanding the benefits of immigration” we discussed how massive layoffs in the public sector are not to be feared, that the jobs will be there instantly and so will the increase in prosperity. The bigger the cut in government spending, the bigger the increase in private sector spending and investing which will lead to a boom in prosperity.

As far as how we can in 6 months turn the economy around some of the things that can quickly get us there are: Abolish minimum wage laws and other restrictions on labor like minimum age requirements. This would allow everyone to work adding a tremendous boost to the economy and the very morals of people. This would greatly reduce crime since former “criminals” will now be able to find employment. It is true that some of their first jobs might not pay much initially, but with a few months of experience and the reputation that comes from this, their productivity would rise and thus would their income. The ability of children and teens to work will greatly reduce poverty and help to further shape a productive character, one that not only values hard work, honesty, competition, and so on, but a character that appreciates and expects those same values from other individuals because teamwork and mutual respect is crucial for successful competition. Hard working and honest people inevitably force others to be likewise. The sooner and easier we make it for people to integrate themselves into the private sector and its attitude-shaping incentives the better. Public education should be abolished immediately as well. With places like http://www.khanacademy.org/, Wikipedia.org, and the many free educational sites and games and the ability to use video/web conferencing via programs like Skype to talk to a knowledgeable person it should be obvious to realize that there is little need to spend thousands of dollars to learn the basic reading, writing, and arithmetic skills needed to move on to more challenging concepts, and much less the need for expensive temple-or-prison-like structures we call “schools”. The war on drugs should be ended immediately and those that have been incarcerated or on parole because of it released from such bondage. At its core the drug war is simply coercion by a group of haters against others. This would turn over a million people/prisoners into wealth producers instead of wealth consumers, reunite parents with children and once again integrate people into the productive-morals-shaping private sector. The violent drug cartels that are destroying Mexico and other Latin American countries would also disappear. And also greatly help black people who are hit hardest by the drug war.

Social Security can be abolished by giving its recipients a check for 3 months of payments. Will this lead to homeless elderly? No way! Many elderly are wealthy enough so they don’t need their Social Security checks at all. The abolishment of minimum wage legislation will make it easy for the elderly to get low paying but easy and comfortable jobs which can supplement their savings in ways that will allow most to still be self-supporting. Most elderly that are unable to work and don’t have enough savings/assets to live independent lives have family members who can take care of them. Most of these elderly will still be a net economic boost to those households that bring them in; they can help with the kids/grandkids, do various errands and so on. For those that become an economic drain on their families then we have to look at the families themselves. Many can easily deal with the additional costs/burden. By the time you are looking at those elderly who are too incapacitated and can’t be taken care of by family, you are dealing with a very small number of people for whom there will be more than enough charity to deal with, especially now that economic prosperity will be growing soooo quickly. If mankind managed to take care of the elderly throughout history when feeding and caring for the old was a hugely more difficult and expensive task, we can surely do it now with much less effort. What about their healthcare or healthcare in general? First of all, much of the healthcare the elderly get is unneeded; most of what goes for medicine in the US is really a society-wide placebo effect. The average Cuban lives just as long as the average American even though the average Cuban gets little to no medical care compared to what Americans get. The abolishment of the FDA, American Medical Association, and the deregulation of the healthcare sector which should happen immediately would reduce the price of medical care tremendously and very fast. If we assume that the cost of medical care goes down by say 90% during the first year after deregulation (which I consider to be a very realistic assumption) then the fear of not having enough wealth to adequately care for even those elderly who don’t have any family should go away. The US military’s nuclear arsenal should be carefully disposed of. The US military and national defense budget can be quickly reduced to 1/10th of what it currently is(or completely abolished but I won’t get into that here J ). All troops from overseas can come home, given a check for 2 months pay and that’s it. The government can continue to pay for the care of people who have been wounded/incapacitated. A year later there will be no need for US military at all since the intellectual revolution will have similar demilitarizing effects all over the world. The national debt should simply be repudiated period! As Murray N. Rothbard writes:

“I propose, then, a seemingly drastic but actually far less destructive way of paying off the public debt at a single blow: out-right debt repudiation. Consider this question: why should the poor, battered citizens of Russia or Poland or the other ex-Communist countries be bound by the debts contracted by their former Communist masters? In the Communist situation, the injustice is clear: that citizens struggling for freedom and for a free-market economy should be taxed to pay for debts contracted by the monstrous former ruling class. But this injustice only differs by degree from "normal" public debt. For, conversely, why should the Communist government of the Soviet Union have been bound by debts contracted by the Czarist government they hated and overthrew? And why should we, struggling American citizens of today, be bound by debts created by a past ruling elite who contracted these debts at our expense?”[527]

People who owe money to the government should just not pay it back. This will greatly help the millions of students who got fooled by the bureaucracy into needing an overpriced college “education”.

If we reach enough of an understanding of freedom and economics to begin to discuss these things in the mainstream then we have definitely reached enough of an ideological change where we can drop our borders and encourage anyone who wishes to do so to come to the US. The statue of liberty will once again be free to welcome people with her beautiful and compassionate message:

“Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door”

Just a slight increase in prosperity and the spread of freedom will quickly alleviate poverty, ignorance and the extremist ideologies that arise from the two. This will greatly help soothe the chaos in the Middle East. Extremist religious views, those of Israeli settlers as well as the Islamic kind will quickly see their ideologies lose their appeal and lead to the melting away of the Israeli/Palestinian conflict. Temporarily I can envision a one state solution when Jews feel like giving real equal rights to Palestinians will not jeopardize their safety and the sorts of changes just mentioned will lead to this. And I say ‘Temporarily’ because eventually our monopolistic “State”s will wither away more and more. The bottom line is that the quicker we can get influential people to understand freedom and spread its understanding the quicker we will be able to dismantle monopolistic government bureaucracies.
