
## Introduction: Without Mises and Hayek mankind drifts towards extinction


The human body and the numerous "systems" that coordinate it like the respiratory, nervous, and digestive "systems", is the result of the actions of some 30 trillion cells but obviously NOT the result of any conscious planning, designing, or conspiring by them. Thanks to the likes of Darwin and a modern understanding of genetics we can understand how natural selection was the inadvertent "designer" of such systems and complex order. The global socioeconomic order, or what the great British 19th century thinker Herbert Spencer referred to as ["The Social Organism"](https://oll.libertyfund.org/titles/spencer-the-man-versus-the-state-with-six-essays-on-government-society-and-freedom-lf-ed),  is also coordinated by a "system", by what economists of the so-called 'Austrian School', like 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics F.A. Hayek and his great mentor Ludwig von Mises, referred to as "The Market Process". 'The Market Process' and the "parts" it is composed of like money, prices, economic competition, interest rates, and the legal/religious/governmental frameworks that sustain it, "are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design" [(Adam Ferguson)](https://www.adamsmith.org/blog/adam-fergusons-great-insight). The 'market process' shares this trait with language which is also a complex mechanism that is the result of human action but was not consciously designed or invented by people/cells. Just like cells are unaware of why they act the way they do and how natural selection has evolved them over billions of years to be parts of complex multi-cellular organisms, so is mankind ignorant of how "processes of selective evolution" have shaped "the brain and society" and created "the market process" which coordinates our actions to create the global socioeconomic order. 

Standing on Mises' shoulders, who provided him with a superb explanation of the workings of the economy and thus all aspects of the market process(money/prices/'interest rates'/etc.) and much, much, much more, Hayek would go on to explain how in a few thousand years culture and 'the market process' had co-evolved to transform homo sapiens, from tribes of slightly smarter vicious apes, into today's massively complex global socioeconomic order/'Social Organism' thus arguably becoming the first person in the history of mankind to provide a complete evolutionary understanding of how the world works. Ignorance of how the socioeconomic order works and has evolved is what keeps plunging the slightly smarter apes, regardless of their "experts" and "great leaders", into tribalistic world wars and economic disasters like the current Coronavirus-related economic shutdowns which are on their way to becoming mankind's Final Disaster. Hayek is still is so far ahead of our time that even today's leading thinkers, like renowned popular science writer Matt Ridley, are just beginning to catch up to the enormity of his insights. Ridley humbly acknowledges this in a 2011 speech where he mentions:

>"As someone who came to Fredrick von Hayek comparatively late in life, I'm still catching up with him...Indeed, many of the insights I thought I had discovered in my own readings and writings on the frontier of evolutionary biology and economics it turns out Hayek had long before me...It's Hayek who first puts it all together." - [Matt Ridley](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pG-grkJPU8Q)

So how did Hayek 'put it all together'?. Easy. Hayek realized that "all enduring structures above the level of the simplest atoms, and up to the brain and society" require precise information to sustain/coordinate/expand their order. If one understands how information coordinates the biological and social orders, then one understands how the world works. It is that simple! Let's briefly try to get a feel for how Hayek saw the world. 

What follows below can be roughly divided into two parts, the first discusses how the socioeconomic order works, and the second discusses how it has co-evolved with culture/religion/ideology, not only transforming the way the economy works from self-sufficient violent tribalism to world-wide peaceful trade and commerce, but also how our morals and behavior changed from being those of 'The Law of The Jungle' to "civilized" worldly citizens. Unfortunately, it is 'The Law of The Jungle' that is sort of "built into our DNA" which helps explain why we so often revert to socioeconomic chaos via 'political infighting'/wars/etc. As we do so we try to focus on how economic ignorance is the root of mankind's most pressing problems like the current Coronavirus-related problems, racial problems, and antisemitsm/(Jew-Gentile relations) which continues to play such a disastrous role in the Middle East and propagates fallacious/polarizing "good" vs. "evil" thinking with countless potential civilization-ending repercussions. 

This book is written with a 'Misesian Ethos'. Ludwig von Mises believed that "Economics deals with society’s fundamental problems; it concerns everyone and belongs to all. It is the main and proper study of every [citizen”](https://mises.org/library/human-action-0/html/pp/932) and is thus written with the expectation that it can be understood by the curious/motivated layperson. 

