
## Introduction: Without Mises and Hayek mankind drifts towards extinction

During the early days in the lead-up to World War I (July 1914) there was an atmosphere of joy and excitement as thousands of young men celebrated and volunteered for the coming war which would bring unity, purpose, and glory. After the war, when much of Europe lay in ruins and about 18 million lives lost (6.5 million invalids just in France), people were numb and in a state of stupor, wondering how they could have fooled themselves into such needless carnage. Why did this happen? And if it was such a big deal at the time, worth sacrificing so much, how come hardly anybody knows anything about it today? 20 years later via WWII the tribalistic slaughter led to over 80 million deaths and what followed was a "Cold War" that brought mankind close to nuclear annihilation several times. Why were our "great leaders" and "intellectuals" utterly powerless to prevent the WWI/II slaughters? How can mankind build mindbogglingly complex microchips, the Internet and so much more, yet still not have figured out something as simple as peace and always be one spark away from another world-wide calamity? There is something missing from our understanding of how the world works, something that our "leading intellectuals" and "experts" have yet to discover and spread accordingly. That "something" has already been discovered and explained by 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics F.A. Hayek and provides a simple answer to the questions above. However, this answer can be a bit hard to swallow for many, but swallow it we must if we are to survive the next WWI-like calamity which might very well result from the current Coronavirus-related economic shutdowns, or a Final World War arising out of the tensions due to the Israeli/Palestinian conflict. The answer is the following: Human beings are slightly smarter and quite-often vicious apes whose nature and instincts are ideally suited to living in small tribes but find themselves relatively lost in the modern socioeconomic order which is coordinated by things like money, profit/loss calculation, economic competition, interest rates and more. Hunting, tribal warfare, and rape are things we have been doing for millions of years and are somewhat intuitive, understanding the aforementioned economic concepts which have been around for less than a couple thousand years is not. We are sort of living in a matrix/'Social Organism' whose workings hardly anyone really understands (unless you have heard of Ludwig von Mises), and whose evolution is understood by and even smaller number of people (Hayek is needed here). Either these men's monumental contributions reach the general public or mankind will prove to be an evolutionary dead end. It is that simple.

In June 2010, Hayek’s classic book “The Road to Serfdom” became the bestselling book in Amazon.com thus making it the fastest selling book in the world at the time. In his famous book, first published over 75 years ago in March 1944, Hayek showed how ignorance of the proper understanding of economics would take mankind towards disastrous centralized/socialist/communist economic policies, and how these policies would inevitably lead to economic crises/paralysis, political turmoil, and eventually “Serfdom” or a kind of slavery to gigantic totalitarian government bureaucracies like Hitler’s Germany and the former Soviet Union. Hayek did not see this as the result of malice on the part of ideologues/politicians or government experts, but as the result of a nearly inevitable ignorance of how the socioeconomic order works and has evolved. 

The human body and the numerous "systems" that coordinate it like the respiratory, nervous, and digestive "systems", is the result of the actions of some 30 trillion cells but obviously NOT the result of any conscious planning, designing, or conspiring by them. Thanks to the likes of Darwin and a modern understanding of genetics we can understand how natural selection was the inadvertent "designer" of such systems and complex order. The global socioeconomic order/'Social Organism' is also coordinated by a "system", by what economists of the so-called 'Austrian School', like Hayek and his great mentor Ludwig von Mises, referred to as "The Market Process". 'The Market Process' and the "parts" it is composed of like money, prices, economic competition, interest rates, and the legal/religious/governmental frameworks that sustain it, "are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design" (Adam Ferguson). The 'market process' shares this trait with language which is also a complex mechanism that is the result of human action but was not consciously designed or invented by people/cells. Just like cells are unaware of why they act the way they do and how natural selection has evolved them over billions of years to be parts of complex multi-cellular organisms, so is mankind ignorant of how "processes of selective evolution" have shaped "the brain and society" and created "the market process" which coordinates our actions to create the global socioeconomic order. This ignorance of how the socioeconomic order works and has evolved is what keeps plunging mankind into tribalistic world wars and economic disasters like the current Coronavirus-related economic calamity. 

Standing on Mises' shoulders, who provided him with a superb explanation of the workings of the economy and thus all aspects of the market process(money/prices/interest rates/etc.) and much, much, much more, Hayek would go on to explain how in a few thousand years culture and 'the market process' had co-evolved to transform homo sapiens, from tribes of slightly smarter apes, into today's massively complex global socioeconomic order/'Social Organism' thus arguably becoming the first person in the history of mankind to provide a complete evolutionary understanding of how the world works. Hayek is still is so far ahead of our time that even today's leading thinkers, like renowned popular science writer Matt Ridley, are just beginning to catch up to the enormity of his insights. Ridley humbly acknowledges this in a 2011 speech where he mentions:

>"As someone who came to Fredrick von Hayek comparatively late in life, I'm still catching up with him...Indeed, many of the insights I thought I had discovered in my own readings and writings on the frontier of evolutionary biology and economics it turns out Hayek had long before me...It's Hayek who first puts it all together." - [Matt Ridley](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pG-grkJPU8Q)

So how did Hayek 'put it all together'?. Easy. Hayek realized that "all enduring structures above the level of the simplest atoms, and up to the brain and society" require precise information to sustain/coordinate/expand their order. If one understands how information coordinates the biological and social orders, then one understands how the world works. It is that simple! Let's briefly try to get a feel for how Hayek saw the world. 

What follows below can be roughly divided into two parts, the first discusses how the socioeconomic order works, and the second how it has co-evolved with culture/religion/ideology. As we do so we try to focus on how economic ignorance is the root of mankind's most pressing problems like the current Coronavirus-related problems and antisemitsm/(Jew-Gentile relations) which continues to play such a disastrous role in the Middle East and propagates fallacious/polarizing "good" vs. "evil" thinking with countless potential civilization-ending repercussions. 

This essay is written with a 'Misesian Ethos'. Ludwig von Mises believed that "Economics deals with society’s fundamental problems; it concerns everyone and belongs to all. It is the main and proper study of every [citizen”](https://mises.org/library/human-action-0/html/pp/932) and is thus written with the hope/expectation that it can be understood by the curious/motivated layperson. Mises again:

>"If we want to avoid the destruction of Western civilization and the relapse into primitive wretchedness, we must change the mentality of our fellow citizens. We must make them realize what they owe to the much vilified "economic freedom," the system of free enterprise and capitalism. The intellectuals and those who call themselves educated must use their superior cognitive faculties and power of reasoning for the refutation of erroneous ideas about social, political and economic problems and for the dissemination of a correct grasp of the operation of the market economy. They must start by familiarizing themselves with all the issues involved in order to teach those who are blinded by ignorance and emotions. They must learn in order to acquire the ability to enlighten the misguided many."

This book is put together by people who feel like we have had the miraculous luck of stumbling upon Mises and feel like he is right, that it is possible to teach how "economic freedom" works to "the immense majority" and that if we fail ["then there is no hope left for mankind".](https://www.econlib.org/book-chapters/chapter-part-2-chapter-viii-human-society/) 