In June 2010, 1974 Nobel Laureate F.A. Hayek’s classic book “The Road to Serfdom” became the bestselling book in Amazon.com thus making it the fastest selling book in the world at the time. 

In his famous book, first published over 75 years ago in March 1944, Hayek showed how ignorance of the proper understanding of economics would take mankind towards disastrous centralized/socialist/communist economic policies, and how these policies would inevitably lead to economic crises, political turmoil, and eventually “Serfdom” or a kind of slavery to gigantic totalitarian government bureaucracies like Hitler’s Germany and the former Soviet Union. Hayek did not see this as the result of malice on the part of politicians or government experts, but out of a certain ignorance or lack of a nuanced understanding of how the socioeconomic order works and has evolved. 


1976 Nobel Laureate in Economics Milton Friedman singled out Hayek as being the most important intellectual leading to the collapse of the Soviet Union when he mentioned:

>“There is no figure who had more of an influence, no person had more of an influence on the intellectuals behind the Iron Curtain than Friedrich Hayek. His books were translated and published by the underground and black market editions, read widely, and undoubtedly influenced the climate of opinion that ultimately brought about the collapse of the Soviet Union.” 

The Socialists of the early 20th century like Lenin/Stalin/Hitler/Mao believed that central planning


If mankind is to achieve a general understanding of how the world really works, and use this knowledge to overcome its rapidly intensifying socioeconomic problems (coronavirus/etc.), which we believe will surely lead to a civilization-ending catastrophe, it must stumble upon Hayek and like-minded thinkers like his great mentor Ludwig von Mises.


The human body and the numerous "systems" that coordinate it like the respiratory, nervous, and digestive "systems", is the result of the actions of some 30 trillion cells but obviously NOT the result of any conscious planning or designing by them. Thanks to the likes of Darwin and a modern understanding of genetics we can understand how natural selection was the inadvertent "designer" of such systems and complex order. The global socioeconomic order, or what the great British 19th century thinker Herbert Spencer referred to as "The Social Organism", is also coordinated by a "system", by what economists of the so-called 'Austrian School' like Ludwig von Mises and his great protégé, 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics F.A. Hayek, referred to as "The Market Process". 'The Market Process' and the "parts" it is composed of like money, prices, economic competition, interest rates, and the legal/religious/governmental frameworks that sustain it, "are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design" (Adam Ferguson). The 'market process' shares this trait with language which is also a complex mechanism that is the result of human action but was not consciously designed or invented by people/cells. Just like cells are unaware of why they act the way they do and how natural selection has evolved them over billions of years to be parts of complex multi-cellular organisms, so is mankind unaware of how "processes of selective evolution" have shaped "the brain and society" and created "the market process" which coordinates our actions to create the global socioeconomic order. This ignorance of how the socioeconomic order works and has evolved keeps plunging mankind into tribalistic world wars and economic disasters like the current Coronavirus calamity. 

