
## Introduction: Without Mises and Hayek mankind drifts towards extinction

In June 2010, 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics F.A. Hayek’s classic book “The Road to Serfdom” became the bestselling book in Amazon.com thus making it the fastest selling book in the world at the time. In his famous book, first published over 75 years ago in March 1944, Hayek showed how ignorance of the proper understanding of economics would take mankind towards disastrous centralized/socialist/communist economic policies, and how these policies would inevitably lead to economic crises/paralysis, political turmoil, and eventually “Serfdom” or a kind of slavery to gigantic totalitarian government bureaucracies like Hitler’s Germany and the former Soviet Union. Hayek did not see this as the result of malice on the part of ideologues/politicians or government experts, but as the result of a nearly inevitable ignorance of how the socioeconomic order works and has evolved. He wrote:

>"It is necessary to realize that the sources of many of the most harmful agents in this world are often not evil men but high-minded idealists, and that in particular the foundations of totalitarian barbarism have been laid by honourable and well-meaning scholars who never recognized the offspring they produced." (Hayek F. A., 1973, p. 70)

>"Most people are still unwilling to face the most alarming lesson of modern history: that the greatest crimes of our time have been committed by governments that had the enthusiastic support of millions of people who were guided by moral impulses. It is simply not true that Hitler or Mussolini, Lenin or Stalin, appealed only to the worst instincts of their people: they also appealed to some of the feelings which also dominate contemporary democracies." (Hayek F. A., 1976, p. 134)

The Coronavirus scare has suddenly put in charge of the world's economies numerous disease experts whose economic ignorance is on par with that of famed Russian leader Vladimir Lenin whose attempt to impose Central Planning/Communism in 1921 led to an unproductive chaos and resulting famine that claimed over 5 million lives. 

The human body and the numerous "systems" that coordinate it like the respiratory, nervous, and digestive "systems", is the result of the actions of some 30 trillion cells but obviously NOT the result of any conscious planning, designing, or conspiring by them. Thanks to the likes of Darwin and a modern understanding of genetics we can understand how natural selection was the inadvertent "designer" of such systems and complex order. The global socioeconomic order, or what the great British 19th century thinker Herbert Spencer referred to as "The Social Organism", is also coordinated by a "system", by what economists of the so-called 'Austrian School', like Hayek and his great mentor Ludwig von Mises, referred to as "The Market Process". 'The Market Process' and the "parts" it is composed of like money, prices, economic competition, interest rates, and the legal/religious/governmental frameworks that sustain it, "are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design" (Adam Ferguson). The 'market process' shares this trait with language which is also a complex mechanism that is the result of human action but was not consciously designed or invented by people/cells. Just like cells are unaware of why they act the way they do and how natural selection has evolved them over billions of years to be parts of complex multi-cellular organisms, so is mankind unaware of how "processes of selective evolution" have shaped "the brain and society" and created "the market process" which coordinates our actions to create the global socioeconomic order. This ignorance of how the socioeconomic order works and has evolved keeps plunging mankind into tribalistic world wars and economic disasters like the current Coronavirus-related economic calamity. 

Standing on Mises' shoulders, who provided him with a superb explanation of the workings of the economy and thus all aspects of the market process(money/prices/interest rates/etc.) and much, much, much more, Hayek would go on to explain how in a few thousand years culture and 'the market process' had co-evolved to transform homo sapiens, from tribes of slightly smarter apes, into today's massively complex global socioeconomic order/'Social Organism' thus arguably becoming the first person in the history of mankind to provide a complete evolutionary understanding of how the world works. Hayek is still is so far ahead of our time that even today's leading thinkers, like renowned popular science writer Matt Ridley, are just beginning to catch up to the enormity of his insights. Ridley humbly acknowledges this in a 2011 speech where he mentions:

>"As someone who came to Fredrick von Hayek comparatively late in life, I'm still catching up with him...Indeed, many of the insights I thought I had discovered in my own readings and writings on the frontier of evolutionary biology and economics it turns out Hayek had long before me...It's Hayek who first puts it all together." - [Matt Ridley](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pG-grkJPU8Q)

So how did Hayek 'put it all together'?. Easy. Hayek realized that "all enduring structures above the level of the simplest atoms, and up to the brain and society" require precise information to sustain/coordinate/expand their order. If one understands how information coordinates the biological and social orders, then one understands how the world works. It is that simple! Let's briefly try to get a feel for how Hayek saw the world. 

What follows below can be roughly divided into two parts, the first discusses how the socioeconomic order works, and the second how it has co-evolved with culture/religion/ideology. As we do so we try to focus on how economic ignorance is the root of mankind's most pressing problems like the current Coronavirus-related problems and antisemitsm/(Jew-Gentile relations) which continues to play such a disastrous role in the Middle East and propagates fallacious/polarizing "good" vs. "evil" thinking with countless potential civilization-ending repercussions. 

During the days in the lead-up to World War I (1914) there was an atmosphere of joy and excitement as thousands of young men, politicians, and civic leaders celebrated the coming war which would bring unity, purpose, and glory. After the war, when much of Europe lay in ruins and nearly 20 million lives lost, people were numb and in a state of stupor, wondering how they could have fooled themselves into such needless carnage. 20 years later via WWII the economically ignorant slightly smarter apes once gain destroyed much of the "civilized" world this time leading to 


This essay is written with a 'Misesian Ethos'. Ludwig von Mises believed that "Economics deals with society’s fundamental problems; it concerns everyone and belongs to all. It is the main and proper study of every [citizen”](https://mises.org/library/human-action-0/html/pp/932) and is thus written with the hope/expectation that it can be understood by the curious/motivated layperson. Mises again:

>"If we want to avoid the destruction of Western civilization and the relapse into primitive wretchedness, we must change the mentality of our fellow citizens. We must make them realize what they owe to the much vilified "economic freedom," the system of free enterprise and capitalism. The intellectuals and those who call themselves educated must use their superior cognitive faculties and power of reasoning for the refutation of erroneous ideas about social, political and economic problems and for the dissemination of a correct grasp of the operation of the market economy. They must start by familiarizing themselves with all the issues involved in order to teach those who are blinded by ignorance and emotions. They must learn in order to acquire the ability to enlighten the misguided many."

This book is put together by people who feel like we have had the miraculous luck of stumbling upon Mises and feel like he is right, that it is possible to teach how "economic freedom" works to "the immense majority" and that if we fail ["then there is no hope left for mankind".](https://www.econlib.org/book-chapters/chapter-part-2-chapter-viii-human-society/) 