
### Human Evolution, Nutrition, Scientific Mythology, Coronavirus, and Competitionless Ideological Monopoly

A brief look at human evolution and nutrition is not only important for improving our health/fitness/happiness but also helps us solidify our complete evolutionary understanding of the world and also further understand how monopolistic/paralyzing government regulatory bureaucracies, even those populated by doctors and scientists who have the best of intentions and are supposed to "follow the scientific method", can fool themselves into following myths and even be as draconian and intolerant of competing ideas as the religious zealots of the famed Spanish Inquisition.  

About 6.5 million years ago we shared a common ancestor with Chimpanzees and Bonobos and were herbivorous tree-dwellers where it was relatively safer, but eventually certain environmental pressures forced us to come down from the trees and become the ultimate carnivorous predators. Unlike herbivores which need more laborious/complex digestive systems to extract/create the necessary fats/proteins/calories from plants, carnivores move up in the food-chain by eating and easily absorbing such nutrients from the bodies of other animals that have already "done the work". What could possibly have the perfect combination of nutrients needed to build a human brain, kidney, liver, muscles, etc. than the brain, kidney, liver of a biologically similar mammal/animal(or human (cannibalism seems to have been popular in our past)). Our guts changed in important ways from those of our closely related primates. The small intestine which absorbs nutrients grew while the large intestines where bacteria helped break down, ferment, and extract/create nutrients from plants shrank. Bacteria that have evolved to pray on plants are mal-adapted to doing the same on animals, this allows herbivores to have slightly acidic stomachs(pH around 4.0), but if you are a carnivore (pH 2-3) bacteria that can pray on fellow animals can also harm you thus the need for a more acidic (lower pH) stomach. Scavenging and eating rotting animals with large quantities of such bacteria requires even more acidic stomachs which is precisely what humans have (pH 1.1 - 1.5). Dr. Saladino writes:

>"2.5 million years ago, with the advent of stone tools and hunting, our ancestors' brains began to grow even more rapidly. In fact they doubled in size over the next 1 million years. Based on the fossil record, it appears we reached a maximum brain size of 1600cc about 40,000 years ago, and that our brains have shrunk slightly since...a significant change in the rate of growth of our ancestors' brains coincided with stone tools and hunting..."

>"In order to determine the proportion of animal foods in the diets of our predecessors, we can examine the amount of δ15 nitrogen in their fossilized bones. By looking at levels of this isotope, researchers are able to infer where in the food chain animals reside by identifying their protein sources. Herbivores generally have δ15N levels of 3–7 percent, carnivores show levels of 6–12 percent, and omnivores display levels between these two. When samples from Neanderthal and early modern humans were analyzed, they demonstrated levels of 12 percent and 13.5 percent, respectively, even higher than that of other known carnivorous animals like hyena and wolves."(["The Carnivore Code: Unlocking the Secrets to Optimal Health by Returning to Our Ancestral Diet](https://www.amazon.com/Carnivore-Code-Unlocking-Returning-Ancestral-ebook/dp/B084FKQYGQ/ref=sr_1_1?dchild=1&keywords=the+carnivore+code&qid=1587178688&sr=8-1))


The downward trend in brain size to about 1,400cc at present coincided with the extinction of megafauna and especially the rise of agriculture. Due to numerous evolutionary pressures involved (megafauna extinction/etc.) agricultural/grain/bread-based society, although inferior and suddenly out of synch with our evolved carnivorous biology in terms of nutrition at the individual level, was more conducive to trade, the resulting division of labor/information, and thus a large more productive/powerful social order at the group level. Nomadic tribes can't carry around large buildings/granaries, increasingly-complex tools/weapons/etc. Instead of sharing things which was vital for tribal existence, privatization became more important/productive. The privatization of land/resources/others(slavery)/women/children and accompanying/enforcing myths/taboos/religions began to be naturally selected for. We went from animalistic promiscuity/gang-bangs(women can have multiple orgasms and enjoy sex for longer uninterrupted periods than men due to sex with multiple males for millions of years), to a stricter and more privatized family structure. Egyptian civilization, although populated by relatively mal-nourished agrarian people, had an advanced division of labor, could feed/equip large armies and thus ultimately became one of modernity's cultural great-grandparents.

Today we get about 70% of our calories from plants, we consume large quantities of highly refined carbohydrates like breads and pastas which cause unnatural and frequent spikes in blood-sugar/glucose and also lack the numerous vitamins/minerals in bioavailable forms that our bodies can actually use. The gasoline that powers our cars has carbon, so does broccoli, yet nobody pumps broccoli into their gas tank. Similarly, just because plants have various vitamins/minerals we need, it does not mean that our bodies will be able to properly absorb them. For example, the phytic acid in seeds "chelates with minerals and metals, such as calcium, magnesium, zinc, and iron, forming insoluble salts that are not readily absorbed by animals or humans. In particular, it can severely impair availability of zinc and iron. Phytate can also complex with proteins and may thereby reduce digestibility or enzyme [activity."](https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/neuroscience/phytic-acid). Not only do we lack the necessary digestive machinery to get the same nutrition from plants that we have evolved to easily get from animals, we also lack defenses against the numerous toxins plants have evolved to defend themselves against predators/herbivores/insects. Plants that did not evolve chemical defenses would have been naturally selected out of existence millions of years ago, thus all plants that exist today do so because they contain such defenses to various degrees. Lectins (damage the gut), glycoalkaloids (neurotoxins), oxalates (create crystals which damage host in numerous ways), phytic acid binds to nutrients and prevents their absorption and there are many more.
 
The glycemic index is a measure of how quickly glucose levels in the blood rise after eating certain foods. Pre-agricultural man, with considerable risk, might find carbohydrate-rich honey from time to time which has an index score of 58, but he would never find, and much less eat several times per day throughout the year, something like a French baguette that has a score of 99, sugary drinks like Coke(63), Gatorade(78),spaghetti(58), white rice(89), Cornflakes(93), and the plethora of processed, grain-based foods that make up most of our calories today. The average American consumes over 150 pounds of sugar per year and many other things like recently-invented vegetable oils and high-fructose corn syrup that our bodies have not evolved to eat which when taken together easily explains why humans have become the only obese animal that is plagued by 'diseases of civilization' like diabetes, heart disease, cancer, dental caries, etc. The bottom line is that like a car that runs with contaminated gasoline and performs sub-optimally, or without coolant and the heat eventually causes some early breakdown somewhere, improper nutrition is likewise the main source of our diseases and relative obesity. Mankind is beginning to catch up to men like dentist Weston Price and anthropologist Vilhjalmur Stefansson who in the early 20th century wrote about how cultures that had not adopted the "civilized" Western world's agriculture/grain-based/sugary/processed diets were relatively healthier. Stefansson spent years living with Eskimos who hardly ever ate any plants or carbohydrates like our pre-agriculture ancestors and were in excellent health, free of cavities or various deficiencies we are supposed to be susceptible to by not eating plants. Stefansson succinctly describes human evolution and how the relatively sudden change to grain-based diets brought about by agriculture is the main source of our troubles. We pay him homage by quoting him at length :

>"Practically the whole world is now agricultural in its diet... if the speculative study of our forebears is begun at the stage when they first deserve the name of anthropoid, or Ape-Human, their dietetic history will fall into three main stages— gathering, hunting, and farming. According to the geologists, the gathering stage, or apeman period, lasted several million years. During this time man ate roots and tubers, shoots and succulent leaves, fruits and yams and nuts, worms and snails and rodents, eggs and fledgling birds. This period was long enough for us to become well adapted to digesting and assimilating the diet, to be healthy on it... After the largely vegetarian gathering stage came the hunting stage, during which the ape turned definitely human. This will have lasted between one and three million years. The period was long enough to enable digestion and assimilation to adapt themselves to a largely carnivorous diet...The third or agricultural stage of diet marks a profound change from either of the two previous diets, those of the gathering ape and of the hunting or herding man. For hitherto, as exclusive gatherers in the anthropoid stage and as occasional gatherers in the hunting stage, men cannot have had any high percentage of cereal food. A little gathering of wild rice or wild wheat now and then, by small groups here and there, cannot have given the people of ten or twenty thousand years ago much evolutionary preparation for the drastic change that came in when our recent ancestors, in some such place as Egypt, India or China, discovered that they could support great numbers on small areas by planting crops— which, in practice, were chiefly cereals, at least over great stretches of several continents. Ten or even twenty thousand years is a short spell, in terms of biologic evolution. So the human mechanism for digesting and assimilating must still be much like what it was when agriculture thrust upon the human race a change in diet that was nearly as profound as the one which had been forced on the anthropoid long ago when he faced the choice of hunting or perishing... It is practically the anthropologists alone, the students of pre-history and of modern primitives, who seem aware that broad conditions of health, as influenced by food, were ever fundamentally different from what they now are. For most branches of the sciences which deal with health never have been jolted from a nearly unquestioning acceptance of the predominantly agricultural civilization into which we were born and in which we and our neighbors, and nearly all the people we ever heard of, have lived. On the agricultural diets now taken for granted this nation, like most or all other civilized nations, is having a deal of trouble with malnutrition... Such troubles have been with us since agriculture began."

He rightly ridicules/criticizes the dental establishment/experts of his day (1946) and even more so ours:

>"A clean tooth never decays. Brush your teeth after every meal, and visit your dentist twice a year. These slogans carry the faith of our people. It is said and believed that we have the best dentists in the world, that we have more tooth brushes, and use them more, than any other people. Many agencies, from kindergarten to university, from town council to and through the governments of city, state, and nation, strive for the spread of dental knowledge and the enforcement of its discipline... During the same time the ether was filled and the magazine pages were crowded with advertising which told that mouth chemistry is altered by a paste, a powder, or a gargle so as to prevent decay; that a special kind of toothbrush reaches all the crevices; that a particular brand of fruit, milk, or bread is rich in elements for tooth health. There were toothbrush drills in the schools. Mothers throughout the land were scolding, coaxing, and bribing to get children to use the preparations, eat the foods, and follow the rules that were said to guarantee perfect oral hygiene. There was endless repetition of the slogan: A clean tooth never decays. Meantime there appeared a statement from Dr. Adelbert Fernald, Curator of the Museum of the Dental School, Harvard University, that he had been collecting mouth casts of living North Americans of all racial derivations from blond to black, from the most northerly Eskimos through Canada and the States south to Yucatan. The best teeth and the healthiest mouths were found among people who never drank milk since they ceased to be suckling babes and who never in their lives tasted or tested any of the other things which we usually recommend for sound teeth. These people, Eskimos not as yet influenced by white men, never used tooth paste, tooth powder, toothbrushes, mouth wash, or gargle. They never took any pains to cleanse their teeth or mouths. They did not visit their dentists twice a year or even once in a lifetime. Their food was exclusively meat. Meat, be it noted, is not mentioned as good for the teeth in the advertisement sponsored by the Commissioner of Health of the City of New York. Teeth superior on the average to those of the presidents of our largest tooth paste companies are found in the world today, and have existed during past ages, among people who violate every precept of current dentifrice advertising." (["Not by Bread Alone" by Vilhjalmur Stefansson (1946)](https://www.amazon.com/Not-bread-alone-Eating-Healthy-ebook/dp/B01M7468KW/ref=sr_1_6?dchild=1&keywords=not+by+bread+alone&qid=1587179074&sr=8-6))

Bottom line, if you are eating a carnivorous diet like we have evolved to eat, you will hardly get cavities or most of the diseases which currently plague mankind like diabetes, heart disease, Alzheimer's, obesity. Like all animals in the wild where obesity is inexistent, there would likewise be no obesity among us.

So how can so many "experts" be so wrong? Before answering this monumentally important question which relates to all fields let's discuss the following. Few things are as important as our health and our fears of death. When it comes to health and religion there is a sort of tremendous selective pressure that ensures that both doctors and preachers carry themselves with additional certainty. A change in ideas here means the existing religion/doctors were wrong in vitally important things so it makes sense that these two bureaucracies evolve certain incentives which fight change even more. Since religion has historically been the state/government which is not only immune from competition but can also sustain its views via force/threats/inquisitions it becomes even easier to see how such ideas/bureaucracies are more immune to change. One of the best examples of the medical bureaucracy's resistance to change is the story of [Ignaz Semmelweis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ignaz_Semmelweis) who circa 1847 realized that by doctors just washing hands, the mortality rate of mothers giving birth at the time could be reduced drastically (from about 16% to 1%). Regardless of his superb results the medical establishment fought and ridiculed his advise and he died a depressed man. [Alfred Wegener](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfred_Wegener#Continental_drift_theory) was the originator of the theory of continental drift by hypothesizing in 1912 that the continents are slowly drifting around the Earth. His ideas were rejected by the scientific establishment which even held a special symposium just to criticize them. 

Wherever there is complexity, mankind can easily fool itself via what is essentially mythology. A myth is "a widely held but false belief or idea". Religion is the perfect example (who knows maybe we are living in the computer simulation of some much smarter organism). Religion inadvertently arose to meet numerous purposes, one of which was to provide answers to an increasingly curious mind which simply lacked the technology to understand many things we now take for granted. Regarding nutrition/disease/medicine, as our ability to understand biochemistry increased, we kept focusing on how particular compounds/medicines could affect the proximate symptoms of various diseases. Successes there and continued technological breakthroughs regarding our ability to understand such complex biochemistry just led to drugs/poisons which got a little better at treating the symptoms. I mentioned 'poisons' because that is exactly what drugs are, they are poisons which at certain doses superficially improve or block some symptoms we focus on but given the mindboggling complex biochemistry of the human body they inevitably cause imbalances in other areas which go largely unnoticed. Eat all the meat you want and your body will properly make the most of it, swallow the bottle of pills and the reality that they are poisons will quickly manifest itself.

If a cure/improvement involves not doing anything or there is no money to be made in it, no money exists to advertise it and spread such information. But if the remedy does involve big profits, then there is money/wealth to motivate the spread of this cure/way, so the "invasive" remedy/information is sort of "naturally selected". This has little to do with some "conspiracy" by the doctors or pharmaceutical industry to keep people away from superior ideas, this is just the way things have inadvertently evolved to various degrees. This is a monumentally important fact!!!! Just like in the Catholic Church one can easily find pedophile priests who don't believe in God, especially today when we have so much science/genetics/etc. to cause doubt, it would be a monumental mistake to point to those examples and then label the entire Catholic Church/'organized religion' as some "conspiracy". The same applies to all of our bureaucracies. When one looks at the leading voices in the low-carb/keto(and more recently carnivore) community, people like [Dr. Timothy Noakes, who had to defend his low-carb views against the existing medical bureaucracy in a manner akin to Galileo defending himself vs. the Church](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9OT_S6fDxR0&list=PLPda1Yn6bpO6DG_b5_wAVXf100niaaJDX), Dr. Jason Fung whose books "The Obesity Code" and "The Diabetes Code" have dominated Amazon.com bestsellers lists for years and are helping thousands lose weight and easily reverse type 2 diabetes by simply fasting and thus cutting out carbohydrates... and many many other doctors, they once believed the "mythology" that diseases like diabetes, heart disease, obesity and many others were primarily due to genetics, eating too much, perhaps not enough exercise, etc. They were not part of some "conspiracy" or maliciously/negligently avoiding superior information. Just like we can expect more "charlatans" or non-believing priests in organized religion as the reasons to doubt become more and more numerous/obvious, so can we expect more medical professionals who purposely look the other way when superior ideas which go against entrenched dogmas become more noticeable. But again, it is vitally important to realize that just because mainstream medicine can be so wrong, it is a bureaucracy that is "indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design"... When people who criticize mainstream medicine whether it'd be when it comes to potential differences of opinion regarding diet, vaccines, and numerous other potential areas, it is a gigantic error to label such bureaucracies and whatever errors they might propagate as some sinister conspiracy. Unfortunately this error happens all the time among naive thinkers who erroneously think everything is the result of some plotters/conspirators when they are the result of more complex factors/incentives and are to a significant degree "indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design". These are the "conspiracy theorists" who then sort of mess it up for the rest of the critics of such bureaucracies. The world of mainstream economics is similarly fooled by its mathematical models and other factors. It too has its mixture of relatively clueless economists, and also some charlatans so the same applies. The so-called military-industrial-complex is the same way where you have plenty of good vs. evil thinkers who genuinely believe we need to protect ourselves against the evildoers, but also plenty of armaments industry CEOs/salesman just looking to purposely exaggerate or even create threats to make a buck. Just like we don't want to make the errors that the "conspiracy theorists" fall for, we also don't want to be ignorant of how human nature coupled with complexity/mythology and competition-less government monopolies create an incentive structure which selects for ass-kissing, negligence, etc. thus virtually guaranteeing that often times as you get to the upper layers you have some real charlatans and truly malicious characters. We just want a nuanced understanding of all factors. 

The understandable decline in religious mythology is to a significant degree being replaced by the equally mythical power of representative government where the economically clueless masses and politicians, enabled by equally clueless Keynesian economists, fall for the mythology that any social/fiscal problem can be fixed by the FED/Central Banks etc. And the Coronavirus scare is accelerating the growth of "Scientism", a blind faith by the economically and scientifically ignorant masses on economically ignorant "scientists/experts" like Dr. Anthony Fauci and his counterparts all over the world who are destroying the global economy based on their mythical "infectious models" and economic lockdown recommendations. And mythical the models are. Viruses and the the immune system are still so mindbogglingly complex, that even with our increasingly powerful electron microscopes and computer simulations the entire field is understandably plagued by uncertainty, differing opinions given the complexity, and eventual "mythology" via disastrous economic recommendations based on mathematical "models".

Regardless of the actual scientific details of the coronavirus pathogen, it is obvious by now that the lethality is comparable to a regular flu. This was admitted by Anthony Fauci who is "Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases", a top-down-paralyzing-competition-immune bureaucracy. After being one of the first top officials to greatly exaggerate the lethality of the potential pathogen based on a "model" that predicted a 3.4% mortality rate, eventually he co-authored a paper in which he admitted:

>"the case fatality rate may be considerably less than 1%. This suggests that the overall clinical consequences of Covid-19 may ultimately be more akin to those of a severe seasonal influenza (which has a case fatality rate of approximately 0.1%) or a pandemic influenza (similar to those in 1957 and 1968) rather than a disease similar to SARS or MERS, which have had case fatality rates of 9 to 10% and 36%, [respectively."](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMe2002387?fbclid=IwAR3fpLEIqWDWukdkIvCsnWB9PCeK5hmHzTYhPK7NzFIOs9ORm3IWP61cFR4)

But even the above numbers hide the relative harmlessness of whatever is causing this so-called epidemic. For example, in [Italy](https://www.epicentro.iss.it/coronavirus/bollettino/Report-COVID-2019_20_marzo_eng.pdf?fbclid=IwAR2xLHsmL_R3vKjoUOonuu5sUPZiB0VB2xH3k3vI7tq3o8cShnwTeWXNhYM), which was a hotbed of hysteria, the average age of people who died and had the virus was 78 years old, and on average people had almost 3 other diseases, only 1.2% of the already old weren’t considered to have other illnesses. It is also important to notice how many were taking all kinds of drugs whose side-effects are often-times what kills them, especially more dangerous anti-viral drugs etc. In [England figures have been similar](https://news.sky.com/video/covid-19-how-do-figures-of-virus-deaths-compare-to-a-normal-year-11964813?fbclid=IwAR2b7ifXRjnbt-eL8oBPLeUhgYj6kLHK5BKNG5xXwrMtq8VXcQ4SATJ1dBo), 98% were elderly with other medical conditions. Their "experts" and their mythical models quickly had to revise predictions from about 500,000 deaths to only 20,000 out of a total population of 56 million people, yet they also wisely estimated that 2/3 of those people would have died anyway from some other cause leading to an estimate of about 6-10K deaths due to virus for the year. Random testing for antibodies which show up after people have been infected with the pathogen have shown that the pathogen has already affected way more people than originally thought and that the rate of mortality is is closer to [0.12-0.2%](https://reason.com/2020/04/17/covid-19-lethality-not-much-different-than-flu-says-new-study/) which makes it similar to regular flu (0.1%). Yet with all of this evidence, Fauci and his counterparts in much of the world continue to believe that we must have lockdowns in order to be better off, in other words, they are pushing "a widely held but false belief or idea", a myth. A myth far more dangerous than praying to some likely inexistent deity. What we really want is for the immune system that natural selection has been perfecting for over a billion years and our "experts" still hardly really understand, to work optimally which it can only do in a body that is free from disease and has been fed the optimal diet/fuel which helps explain why truly healthy people, even among the relatively old, rarely succumb to the Coronavirus pathogen. 

So back to the very basics. How do we discover the truth? What if everything mentioned above is wrong? How do we discover superior information? How do we discover whether Fauci is right or wrong? Competition of course. Fortunately, although Fauci gets to play 'Central Planner'/dictator in the USSA, there is still competition between different countries, so the runaway complex of fallacies and perverse incentives that are quickly crippling the USSA and other countries via the economically ignorant draconian lockdowns, are not doing the same in other countries like Sweden which have kept businesses and schools open and have simply allowed the herd immunity that animals have evolved to deal with such pathogens work as it has for millions of years. Here we should once again remind ourselves of the unintended harms of government(forced-competitionless monopoly), especially world government organizations like the World Health Organization. Their rules/regulations/laws are discovered via the usual mixture of human tribalism/nationalism, economic ignorance, all kinds of special interests, corruption, and so much more. There is no competition, no voting with your feet once the laws/errors apply to the entire world. Government stamps out competition which is the main selective process that helps us figure out what is really best for us, not just in terms of how to go about providing goods and services but what rules/laws lead to the most prosperity as well. As Hayek tells us “…selection by evolution is prevented by government monopolies that make competitive experimentation impossible.” (Hayek F. A., 1989, p. 103) 


Yet again, in order to really differentiate between mythology/falsehoods and facts/truth, one needs competitive knowledge discovery which is of course what mankind lacks in these increasingly complex and thus mythology-prone fields. The root of the problem here is the economic ignorance that leads to government/monopoly regulation and management of the medical sectors (economy/others as well) which makes superior competitive knowledge discovery that much harder and also leads to hard-to-change bureaucracies. In the world of the unregulated Software/IT sector computer programmers have no protection/means or incentive to fight or neglect superior ideas, on the contrary, they are always looking for the latest and greatest ways to do anything. There is no "mythology" in the world of software, teenagers in shorts can give talks showcasing the latest technologies. There is no "Power of the White Coat" in software like there is in medicine. Competition has evolved the sector and accompanying culture to be free of such "appeal to authority" fallacies and other mythology. The real discovery of superior information in the world of medicine and nutrition has thus been occurring, not in mainstream/monopolistic/regulated/government medicine, but with those smaller number of doctors and organizations who have gone against the grain but now utterly dominate Amazon.com bestseller lists like doctors Fung and other increasingly popular and hard to ignore low-carb/keto/carnivore folks. The Internet with whatever freedom it has left, Amazon.com and its bestsellers lists and reviews, have inadvertently evolved to help discover truth better than our monopolistic/competition-immune bureaucracies. It is that simple, wherever you have freedom, you have competition and you get closer to the truth. And conversely, wherever you lack freedom, you lack competition and get further away from the truth. Just like mankind fooled itself into believing that human "reason" via "Scientific Socialism" could do a better job at coordinating the actions of millions/billions of human beings compared to the evolution-evolved "market process", so do we fool ourselves into believing we can do better than what natural selection has done with our bodies and immune system.  

So natural selection created a sort of algorithm to discover information, create superior social order, and also very importantly! prevent the growth of falsehoods and incentive structures which lead to hard-to-change/paralyzing/dangerous orders/bureaucracies. Freedom of course, which is "the ultimate algorithm", and the competitive knowledge discovery that emerges from it. We just need to understand it, that's all. The average citizen has no need to become an expert in nutrition, or economics, or history, or psychology, or whatever, what he needs to become an expert in which fortunately is not hard at all is ensuring that there is maximum freedom and thus competitive knowledge discovery everywhere. By focusing on economic education we really strike at the root of the ignorance and errors from which all other problems arise. 


