## Conclusion

If we are to quickly save mankind and reach the prosperity we are truly capable of, those of us who've had the miraculous fortune of stumbling upon Mises/Hayek/friends' wisdom must succeed at spreading it to fellow slightly smarter apes. We must find/join people who are thoroughly convinced that such quick prosperity can be achieved and thus become beacons of hope and economic education "in order to teach those who are blinded by ignorance and emotions." We must join Mises and go over the parapet in his "intellectual battle" against the economic ignorance that threatens civilization.

Mises: 

>"Everyone carries a part of society on his shoulders; no one is relieved of his share of responsibility by others. And no one can find a safe way out for himself if society is sweeping towards destruction. Therefore, everyone, in his own interests, must thrust himself vigorously into the intellectual battle. None can stand aside with unconcern; the interests of everyone hang on the result. Whether he chooses or not, every man is drawn into the great historical struggle, the decisive battle into which our epoch has plunged us."

We must become and inspire others to be "true friends of mankind", as one of Mises' greatest students, Prof. George Reisman writes:

>"As should be increasingly clear, economics is a science which can make possible the construction of a social and political system in which human success is a feature of normal, everyday life everywhere. It is truly the humanitarian science, and only those who have studied it well and who are prepared to implement its teachings deserve to be called friends of mankind. The most important charity which true friends of mankind can pursue is to disseminate knowledge of this vital subject as widely and as deeply as they know how.”


Since it is an "intellectual battle" against economic ignorance for which nobody is really to blame, we must try to keep our cool by not turning a problem of economic ignorance into a moral one, which as Mises mentions bellow can only lead to "irreconcilable conflict". Questioning people's intelligence/sanity is also a great error. In just two consecutive paragraphs Mises does away with the they are "evil" and/or "stupid" fallacies:

>"The problems involved are purely intellectual and must be dealt with as such. It is disastrous to shift them to the moral sphere and to dispose of supporters of opposite ideologies by calling them villains. It is vain to insist that what we are aiming at is good and what our adversaries want is bad. The question to be solved is precisely what is to be considered as good and what as bad. The rigid dogmatism peculiar to religious groups and to Marxism results only in irreconcilable conflict. It condemns beforehand all dissenters as evildoers, it calls into question their good faith, it asks them to surrender unconditionally. No social cooperation is possible where such an attitude prevails.

>No better is the propensity, very popular nowadays, to brand supporters of other ideologies as lunatics. Psychiatrists are vague in drawing a line between sanity and insanity. It would be preposterous for laymen to interfere with this fundamental issue of psychiatry. However, it is clear that if the mere fact that a man shares erroneous views and acts according to his errors qualifies him as mentally disabled, it would be very hard to discover an individual to which the epithet sane or normal could be attributed. Then we are bound to call the past generations lunatic because their ideas about the problems of the natural sciences and concomitantly their techniques differed from ours. Coming generations will call us lunatics for the same reason. Man is liable to error. If to err were the characteristic feature of mental disability, then everybody should be called mentally disabled." [(Mises)](https://mises.org/library/human-action-0/html/pp/714)

Hayek also explains:

>"When I stressed that is genuine intellectual error that we have to fight, what I meant to bring out is that we ought to remain aware that our opponents are often high-minded idealists whose harmful teachings are inspired by very noble ideals. It seems to me that the worst mistake a fighter for our ideals can make is to ascribe to our opponents dishonest or immoral aims. I know it is sometimes difficult not to be irritated into a feeling that most of them are a bunch of irresponsible demagogues who ought to know better... if we have not yet convinced them, the reason must be that our arguments are not yet quite good enough, that we have not yet made explicit some of the foundations on which our conclusions rest. Our chief task therefore must still be to improve the argument on which our case for a free society rests."

Hazlitt greatly inspires below:

>"...the hard thing must be said that, collectively, we just haven't been good enough. We haven't convinced the majority. Is this because the majority just won't listen to reason? I am enough of an optimist, and I have enough faith in human nature, to believe that people will listen to reason if they are convinced that it is reason. Somewhere, there must be some missing argument, something that we haven't seen clearly enough, or said clearly enough, or, perhaps, just not said often enough. A minority is in a very awkward position. The individuals in it can't afford to be just as good as the individuals in the majority. If they hope to convert the majority they have to be much better; and the smaller the minority, the better they have to be. They have to think better. They have to know more. They have to write better. They have to have better controversial manners. Above all, they have to have far more courage. And they have to be infinitely patient.

Just like Socialism/Communism and our big-government problems are caused by viral economic fallacies, so too should we focus on viral bits of economic wisdom. We should focus on those ideas that can both explain the most as quickly as possible and also cause enough doubt on what the current crop of clueless "experts" are recommending(essentially more regulation/planning and 'Central Bank Socialism' by creating money to manage the social order). [Hazlitt wisely identified a focus](https://mises.org/library/task-confronting-libertarians) on the basics on monetary policy and inflation because it is easy to understand, teach, and immediately lets people know that it is the Central Banks that are responsible for the inflation, rising prices, and general growth of government. Hayek's focus on how competition spreads information and superior order and how governments prevent/slow-down this process is also easy and a powerful way to get people closer to the proper understanding of how private property leads to economic freedom which then leads to competition and superior order. There is no reason why famous athletes and movie stars and others of influence can't understand basic economics and be likewise motivated to become "friends of mankind".

We have no policy recommendations for brevity's sake, so let us quote Mises one last time. The very last 3 sentences from "Human Action" stress that:

>"The body of economic knowledge is an essential element in the structure of human civilization; it is the foundation upon which modern industrialism and all the moral, intellectual, technological, and therapeutical achievements of the last centuries have been built. It rests with men whether they will make the proper use of the rich treasure with which this knowledge provides them or whether they will leave it unused. But if they fail to take the best advantage of it and disregard its teachings and warnings, they will not annul economics; they will stamp out society and the [human race."](https://mises.org/library/human-action-0/html/pp/936)

