### Introduction: Lessons from WWI and Why I'm Running for Congress 

In August 10, 1915, British physicist Henry Mosely, who would have probably won the Nobel Prize that year, died in perhaps the most disastrous error mankind has thus far made, The First World War (1914–18). Bright and pious German/French/British/Russian… students, fathers, engineers, "great minds" and "experts", who even shared a common European Christian faith, reverted to their tribal ape-like nature, and for God, honor, flag and country, slaughtered each other leading to about 18 million deaths. At 7:30 am July 1st, 1916 the 'Battle of the Somme' began. On this single day, just the British alone, had about 20,000 fatalities and 35,000 wounded. On that day a British soldier was either killed or wounded on average every second. The "honor" of a military career would lead to disproportionately higher losses for the upper classes for all belligerents. Germany's top general, Erich Ludendorff would lose two sons, as would future British Prime Minister Andrew Bonar Law. British Prime Minister at the start of the war, Herbert Asquith, lost one. While about 12% of British troops would die in the war, 31% of Oxford's 1913 graduating class would die. This should help abolish the popular naive myth that politicians are quick to bring about wars while wanting to avoid personal loses in them. Nonsense unfortunately, the slightly smarter human apes have been naturally selected to be vicious killers and to enjoy war. Warfare/predation was perhaps the optimal evolutionary strategy and one of the main reasons we are social and have evolved big brains to begin with. As Steven Pinker writes:

>"… men go to war to get or keep women –not necessarily as a conscious goal of the warriors(though often it is exactly that), but as the ultimate payoff that allowed a willingness to fight to evolve. Access to women is the limiting factor on male's reproductive success. Having two wives can double a man's children, having three wives can triple it, and so on. The most common spoils of tribal warfare are women. Raiders kill the men, abduct the nubile women, gang-rape them, and allocate them as wives." [( Steven Pinker's "How the Mind Works" 1999, p. 510)](https://books.google.com/books?id=5cXKQUh6bVQC&pg=PA510&lpg=PA510&dq=%22men+go+to+war+to+get+or+keep+women+%E2%80%93not+necessarily+as+a+conscious%22&source=bl&ots=4RwtAahW_K&sig=ACfU3U0IXRFzLuCSIqv5V30T72_P_PpzSQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwin-sGOwe7mAhVJoZ4KHbZ5BvAQ6AEwAHoECAkQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22men%20go%20to%20war%20to%20get%20or%20keep%20women%20%E2%80%93not%20necessarily%20as%20a%20conscious%22&f=false)

First you increase the economic pie available to your self/tribe/gene-pool by coordinating a raid and killing other men (eating them too since cannibalism seems to have been popular in our evolutionary past), and then you increase your reproductive success by raping the women and making them yours. To be successful in war you need a strong sense of unity which translates itself into the strong nationalist/militaristic/patriotic tendencies we are so susceptible to and has the planet littered with nuclear weapons and "civilized" taxpayers believing we must have them. The bond men make as co-warriors is likely stronger than male/female love. A female is easily replaceable (another raid, etc.) but the loss of that co-warrior that will help get the next female and/or defend you when you only get one chance at life is probably even more important. Just like natural selection has shaped us to enjoy sex due to the vital biological/evolutionary importance, it has also shaped us to enjoy war/violence and easily segregating ourselves into the in-group/us/"good" vs. out-group/them/"evil". Given its importance, war/patriotism easily fills us with a great sense of purpose. England's prime minister during WWII and national hero Winston Churchill shows us how inspiring, exciting and purposeful WWI was to him when he mentioned:

>"I think a curse should rest on me - because I love this war. I know it's smashing and shattering the lives of thousands every moment - and yet - I can't help it - I enjoy every second of it." [(Churchill)](https://foreignpolicy.com/2009/02/25/churchills-advice/)

And in another occasion:

>"My God! This is living History. Everything we are doing and saying is thrilling… Why I would not be out of this glorious delicious war for anything the world could give me…" [(Churchill, per Margot Asquith)](https://books.google.com/books?id=MzytDwAAQBAJ&pg=PT297&lpg=PT297&dq=%22My+God!+This+is+living+History.+Everything+we+are+doing+and+saying+is+thrilling%22&source=bl&ots=zYG1LaIeSU&sig=ACfU3U3RqPMPBYEmjxIkEd7kh_p8RBiKrw&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiiycmAr-7mAhWVoJ4KHSSzAQIQ6AEwAXoECAoQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22My%20God!%20This%20is%20living%20History.%20Everything%20we%20are%20doing%20and%20saying%20is%20thrilling%22&f=false)

Towards the end of WWII, Russia's Red Army is estimated to have raped over 2 million German women. Equally human, the Allies/Americans weren't much better and generally saw the Japanese as an inferior race and cared little for their suffering or views, as US president who nuked Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Harry S. Truman, mentions in a letter:

>"The only language they seem to understand is the one we have been using to bombard them. When you have to deal with a beast you have to treat him as a beast." [(Truman letter to Samuel McCrea Cavert, General Secretary of The Churches of Christ in America)](http://www.nuclearfiles.org/menu/library/correspondence/truman-harry/corr_truman_1945-08-11.htm)

We shouldn't be shocked when men murder, rape and torture, or masturbate to tentacle porn, the real miracle that has taken thousands of years of cultural/legal evolution to create, are the modern cultural values/laws we absorb that program us into respecting the body/property/thoughts of all human beings regardless of age, sex, beliefs, and race. Being the social slightly smarter apes that we are, fellow humans are our biggest assets which helps explain the evolution of altruism/compassion due to the great benefits we get at the group-level, and horrendous violence towards fellow men since we are our biggest competitors. 

How can mankind build mindbogglingly complex microchips, smartphones, the Internet and so much more, yet still not have figured out something as simple as peace? Why is it that every day at Microsoft I interact with co-workers from Russia, China, Iran, Israel, etc. yet our tribalistic governments are mired in conflict? Is there something to be learned from the fact that in July 1914 so many people/Henrys/leaders/"experts" brainwashed themselves into such needless carnage yet hardly anyone today has the slightest clue why WWI was fought? Everyone in that tribal disaster died for absolutely nothing! Similarly, is there something to be learned from the fact that with the best of intentions and guided by numerous bright intellectuals millions during the 20th century fell for Socialism/Communism thus inadvertently bringing unimaginable suffering upon themselves? and that to this day hardly anyone in the entire planet knows why Communism IS 100% IMPOSSIBLE to implement without it leading to socioeconomic chaos/famines(explained below)? In about 2 months the Coronavirus-related economic shutdowns and restrictions have the USA and much of the world headed towards a WWI-like tribalistic socioeconomic calamity which might very well be mankind's Final Disaster. The three aforementioned calamities all have one common root. Massive ignorance of how the socioeconomic order works! Not ill intent on the part of ideologues and the masses that support them. As 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics F.A. Hayek tells us:

>"Most people are still unwilling to face the most alarming lesson of modern history: that the greatest crimes of our time have been committed by governments that had the enthusiastic support of millions of people who were guided by moral impulses. It is simply not true that Hitler or Mussolini, Lenin or Stalin, appealed only to the worst instincts of their people: they also appealed to some of the feelings which also dominate contemporary democracies." (Hayek F. A., 1976, p. 134)

>"It is necessary to realize that the sources of many of the most harmful agents in this world are often not evil men but high-minded idealists, and that in particular the foundations of totalitarian barbarism have been laid by honourable and well-meaning scholars who never recognized the offspring they produced." (Hayek F. A., 1973, p. 70)


The human body and the numerous "systems" that coordinate it like the respiratory, nervous, and digestive "systems", is the result of the actions of some 30 trillion cells but obviously NOT the result of any conscious planning, designing, or conspiring by them. Thanks to the likes of Darwin and a modern understanding of genetics we can understand how natural selection was the inadvertent "designer" of such systems and complex order. The global socioeconomic order, or what the great British 19th century thinker Herbert Spencer referred to as ["The Social Organism"](https://oll.libertyfund.org/titles/spencer-the-man-versus-the-state-with-six-essays-on-government-society-and-freedom-lf-ed),  is also coordinated by a "system", by what economists of the so-called 'Austrian School', like F.A. Hayek and his great mentor Ludwig von Mises, referred to as "The Market Process". 'The Market Process' and the "parts" it is composed of like money, prices, economic competition, interest rates, and the legal/religious/governmental frameworks that sustain it, "are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design" [(Adam Ferguson)](https://www.adamsmith.org/blog/adam-fergusons-great-insight). 

Standing on Mises' shoulders, who provided him with a superb explanation of the workings of the economy and thus all aspects of the market process(money/prices/'interest rates'/etc.) and much, much, much more, Hayek would go on to explain how in a few thousand years culture and 'the market process' had co-evolved to transform homo sapiens, from tribes of slightly smarter vicious apes, into today's massively complex global socioeconomic order/'Social Organism' thus arguably becoming the first person in the history of mankind to provide a complete evolutionary understanding of how the world works. Ignorance of how the socioeconomic order works and has evolved is what keeps plunging the slightly smarter apes, regardless of their "experts" and "great leaders", into tribalistic world wars and economic disasters like the current Coronavirus-related economic shutdowns and resulting socioeconomic chaos and tyranny. Hayek is still is so far ahead of our time that even today's leading thinkers, like renowned popular science writer Matt Ridley, are just beginning to catch up to the enormity of his insights. Ridley humbly acknowledges this in a 2011 speech where he mentions:

>"As someone who came to Fredrick von Hayek comparatively late in life, I'm still catching up with him...Indeed, many of the insights I thought I had discovered in my own readings and writings on the frontier of evolutionary biology and economics it turns out Hayek had long before me...It's Hayek who first puts it all together." - [Matt Ridley](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pG-grkJPU8Q)

So how did Hayek 'put it all together'?. Easy. Hayek realized that all living things require precise information to sustain/coordinate/expand their order. If one understands how information coordinates the biological and social orders, then one understands how the world works. It is that simple! Let's briefly try to get a feel for how Hayek saw the world.

This book is written with a 'Misesian Ethos'. The great economist Ludwig von Mises wrote towards the end of his monumental treatise "Human Action" [(free PDF)](https://cdn.mises.org/Human%20Action_3.pdf) [(Amazon.com)](https://www.amazon.com/Human-Action-Ludwig-von-Mises/dp/1610161459/ref=sr_1_1?dchild=1&keywords=human+action&qid=1589443352&sr=8-1)

>"Economics must not be relegated to classrooms and statistical offices and must not be left to esoteric circles. It is the philosophy of human life and action and concerns everybody and everything. It is the pith of civilization and of man's human existence…All present-day political issues concern problems commonly called economic. All arguments advanced in contemporary discussion of social and public affairs deal with fundamental matters of…economics. Everybody's mind is preoccupied with economic doctrines…Everybody thinks of economics whether he is aware of it or not. In joining a political party and in casting his ballot, the citizen implicitly takes a stand upon essential economic theories…As conditions are today, nothing can be more important to every intelligent man than economics. His own fate and that of his progeny is at stake…all reasonable men are called upon to familiarize themselves with the teachings of economics. This is, in our age, the primary civic duty. Whether we like it or not, it is a fact that economics cannot remain an esoteric branch of knowledge accessible only to small groups of scholars and specialists. Economics deals with society's fundamental problems; it concerns everyone and belongs to all. It is the main and proper study of every [citizen."](https://mises.org/library/human-action-0/html/pp/932)

And in another occasion:

>"If we want to avoid the destruction of Western civilization and the relapse into primitive wretchedness, we must change the mentality of our fellow citizens. We must make them realize what they owe to the much vilified "economic freedom," the system of free enterprise and capitalism. The intellectuals and those who call themselves educated must use their superior cognitive faculties and power of reasoning for the refutation of erroneous ideas about social, political and economic problems and for the dissemination of a correct grasp of the operation of the market economy. They must start by familiarizing themselves with all the issues involved in order to teach those who are blinded by ignorance and emotions. They must learn in order to acquire the ability to enlighten the misguided many.

>It is a fateful error on the part of our most valuable contemporaries to believe that economics can be left to specialists in the same way in which various fields of technology can be safely left to those who have chosen to make any one of them their vocation. The issues of society's economic organization are every citizen's business. To master them to the best of one's ability is the duty of [everyone."](https://mises.org/library/mises-reviews-rothbards-man-economy-and-state)


This is why I am running for office. Because spreading an understanding of economics is 'in our age, the primary civic duty' and running for office is a great way to place ourselves where people are looking for answers and leadership.