
### The war on drugs, its history, and race relations

Many people like mind-altering substances/drugs/alcohol/etc., mankind always has and they have played an important role in our cultural evolution since getting high was an important way to interact with the spirit world/gods which played a vital role in the emergence of our religions/rules/laws/etc. Since many drugs are outlawed but people still want them and are thus willing to trade money for them, their cost has to pay for the additional risk/consumption involved in their production like the concealment, bribes to corrupt cops that will look the other way and more. This is why a kilogram of cocaine might cost $200 to produce in a Bolivian jungle might sell for $20,000 in New York City. The relative higher price needed to cover such costs/consumption inevitably motivates people, especially poorer and less educated/productive, to enter the drug-production and trafficking business. Eventually these people get busted which now forces taxpayers to pay over $31,000 per year per inmate (over $60,000 in California and in NYC it is a whopping $168,000) to keep each drug dealer and user in jail. From 1984 to 1996, California built 21 new prisons, and only one [new university.](https://www.drugwarfacts.org/chapter/prison) In 2006 there were 1,889,810 drug related arrests, of which almost 830,000 were related to marijuana, which is relatively harmless, and much less so than alcohol. Just try to imagine all the wealth that is consumed from society as we feed, clothe and equip the criminal-industrial-complex as it does this useless function. Each drug bust and jailing of dealers/producers simply reduces the supply of drugs which means a smaller amount of wealth being chased by the same amount of money so that their price simply goes up, once again increasing the motivation for people to become drug producers/traffickers/dealers. This is a cycle that never ends and has nearly half a million Americans in jail at an enormous cost to taxpayers and causing horrible suffering and misery in poorer Latin American countries where powerful drug cartels/businesses emerge because the cost to not only manufacture the drugs is smaller but to also avoid/bribe/terrorize the local police/citizens which explains why countries like Mexico have so much drug-related violence. The US government further intensifies the suffering by taxing and taking wealth from Americans to then arm and train the police in those countries to help crack down on the cartels leading to brutal mini-civil wars. If drugs were legalized, instead of having millions of people consuming billions of dollars worth of wealth as they made a living doing the expensive and deadly aforementioned activities (cartels/prisons), you would simply get a small increase in the people employed in the pharmaceutical and agricultural industry lowering their price to that of your average multivitamin. The money saved by drug users and taxpayers since jails would no longer be needed would now get spent in other areas increasing employment and wages in those industries. 

An important factor in the prohibition of drugs as well as prostitution is our desire or incentive to restrain the freedom of others; actions which we feel might put us at a disadvantage in some regard. For example, one of the things we inadvertently like about marriage customs, is because we fear a guy who is a stud who will do better with many women, and likewise, women fear other women luring their men away and so on. The ideologies which we adhere to have a lot to do with incentives and how we see ourselves succeeding or failing given the world lived according to such ideologies. For example, if you see yourself as being very beautiful with a killer body compared to others, you might be ok with people wearing skimpy dresses and would be less likely to shun such behavior. If on the other hand you are fat and ugly, you might shun such behavior and have your mind inadvertently gravitate towards ideologies which associate such behavior with bad things. If you are the nerdy kid who for whatever reason never managed to absorb the much more fun culture of recreational drug use and sex, your mind might inadvertently gravitate more towards an ideology that restricts such behavior. So we can assume that people who are less likely to feel threatened by what others might do with their freedom tend to be more tolerant of freedom. And similarly, people who tend to be less tolerant of freedom are more likely to feel threatened by what others do with their freedom.

This applies perfectly to drug prohibition which to a significant degree is a strategy for preventing others from perhaps succeeding at being more social and gaining the benefits that come from this and the history of drug prohibition clearly shows this to have been an important motivating factor. 

Harry J. Anslinger, the nation’s first Drug Czar, before Congress in 1937 said: 

>“There are 100,000 total marijuana smokers in the U.S. and most are Negroes, Hispanics, Filipinos and entertainers. Their satanic music, jazz and swing, result from marijuana use. This marijuana causes white women to seek sexual relations with Negroes.”

What was happening was that jazz music was the cool music and blacks were just having more fun or better said, spreading a more fun environment/culture that was more in tune with our human nature compared to the more human-nature-restricting but more civilization-enabling Christian norms of the time. 

The down-to-earth white girls wanted to be where the fun, dancing and happy guys were, and that was in the jazz scene, and quite naturally there were plenty of happy and high black guys looking to score. Similar interracial fears were at play in some of our very first drug prohibitions, in this case involving Opium and the Chinese that brought it over here.  In San Francisco in 1875 when the City of San Francisco passed the first laws aimed at prohibiting drug use.

>“The roots of this ordinance were racist rather than health-oriented, and were concerned with what today is known as "life-style." Opium smoking was introduced into the United States by tens of thousands of Chinese men and boys imported during the l850s and 1880s to build the great Western railroads. The Chinese laborers then drifted into San Francisco and other cities, and accepted employment of various kinds at low wages --- giving rise to waves of anti-Chinese hostility. Soon white men and even women were smoking opium side by side with the Chinese, a life-style which was widely disapproved. The San Francisco authorities, we are told learned upon investigation that "many women and young girls, as well as young men of respectable family, were being induced to visit the [Chinese] opium-smoking dens, where they were ruined morally [and otherwise”](http://www.druglibrary.org/schaffer/library/studies/cu/cu6.htm#Anchor-44867)

 
The following quote by former U.S. president Gerald Nixon’s staffer John Ehrlichman really shows how racism towards black men was the leading motivating factor in Nixon’s escalation of the “War on Drugs”:

>“The Nixon campaign in 1968, and the Nixon White House after that, had two enemies: the antiwar left and black people. You understand what I’m saying? We knew we couldn’t make it illegal to be either against the war or black, but by getting the public to associate the hippies with marijuana and blacks with heroin, and then criminalizing both heavily, we could disrupt those communities. We could arrest their leaders, raid their homes, break up their meetings, and vilify them night after night on the evening news. Did we know we were lying about the drugs? Of course we did.”[Legalize It All: How to win the war on drugs” By Dan Baum. Harper’s Magazine, March 22, 2016](https://harpers.org/archive/2016/04/legalize-it-all/?single=1)


One of the examples of our current drug laws’ more blatant racism comes from the discrepancy in sentencing between being busted for crack cocaine and powdered cocaine. Crack cocaine is cheaper and more predominantly used by lower income blacks yet the punishment for using crack is much more severe. For example, you might get a mandatory 5 year sentence for carrying 5 grams of crack cocaine, yet you would need to carry maybe 500 grams of the powdered cocaine to get hit with same sentence. As mentioned in drugwarfacts.com :

>“In 1986, before mandatory minimums for crack offenses became effective, the average federal drug offense sentence for blacks was 11% higher than for whites. Four years later following the implementation of harsher drug sentencing laws, the average federal drug offense sentence was 49% [higher for blacks.”](https://www.drugwarfacts.org/chapter/race_prison)


There was a time when kids could go to drugstores and buy anything and people could take any substance and people weren’t all high and unproductive. Few people would consider jailing a grown man and taking him away from his children and job because he abuses alcohol and gets drunk from time to time at parties in responsible ways, yet someone who does a little cocaine or heroin is somehow treated different, as some sort of irresponsible ‘evil-doer’. If drugs were legal, instead of having mostly just alcohol, people would have more choices and the normal consequences and incentives related to their use would ensure that they would be used responsibly. Consequences are all that we need to help mankind discover how to best go about utilizing its freedom. The bottom line is that drugs don’t screw people’s lives, it is getting busted and the financial and other stresses that the drug war causes as well as the socioeconomic problems people have that lead them to abuse drugs in the first place.


We conclude this section with the story of Rachel Harrison. Rachel was a newborn when Child Protection Services took her away from her responsible and loving parents for the “crime” of recreational marijuana use even though [CPS personnel never found the parents to have abused or neglected her in any way.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VYC-EJ18IT0&feature=player_embedded) Eventually her parents got her back but when she was 3 years old her mother had an appendectomy and this time they found cocaine in her system, a drug both parents responsibly used and never got in the way of being responsible, hardworking, and caring adults. This time, instead of just being mistreated and neglected by a foster system that cared little about her, a psychiatrist who worked for CPS put her on multiple psychiatric drugs like Risperdal which even according to the medical establishment should not be given to kids under 10. Next time her parents were allowed to see her she had become a “drooling, lethargic, emaciated little girl”. The parents asked CPS if she had been given psychiatric drugs but they would lie to them and tell them she wasn’t. Eventually, after a drawn out legal battle (I’m sure costly too) they got her back. “You are powerless against these people. They hold all the cards and they will do whatever they want.” Said the father in an interview. “There is paperwork saying she was screaming for mommy and daddy, and the easiest way to handle her acting up was to medicate her.” Said the mother. According to the Government Accountability Office, about a fourth of all 425,000 children in foster care are given psychiatric drugs with many being forced to take doses higher [than the FDA approves.](https://abcnews.go.com/US/study-shows-foster-children-high-rates-prescription-psychiatric/story?id=15058380&singlePage=true)  In Texas, children in foster care are 53 times more likely to be put on more than FIVE drugs simultaneously than children not in foster care. Foster parents who refuse to put children in psychiatric medications can lose the kids if they don’t do so. 

The drug war needs to be ended immediately and the millions of people in jail or harassed by it should be freed from such bondage. This would be the quickest way to improve the lives of African Americans as a whole.