### The utterly clueless Bill Gates and the noble lie

The Coronavirus and much that is related is quickly making Bill Gates one of the most polarizing figures in the US. To some he embodies a certain ideal, a genius who is heroically trying to prepare and eventually save mankind from what many feel like will be the inevitable emergence of some super pandemic. To others, and I hate to generalize this way, to some elements of the more religious "right" he is some "power hungry" "elite" who wants to control people for some sinister purpose. Since the world is becoming increasingly interconnected, it is understandable how some potential pathogen, which in a smaller tribal world might have wiped out a tiny tribe, might now wipe out a huge chunk or perhaps even all of humanity. It is understandable how this mindset would almost inevitably lure an increasing number of concerned minds. Given the global/borderless nature of this potential problem, as well as the potential need to require global compliance, perhaps in the form of some treatment like a vaccine which a large number of people must be given to properly work, it is understandable how anyone who attempts to tackle this problem finds himself in the role of a central planner who pretty much has no choice but to persuade leaders into a potentially world-wide coercive solution which can obviously have you portrayed as some very bad guy, which is something Gates is understandingly increasingly having to deal with. Given the nature of this problem, the more this idea spreads through the minds of people, especially the medical monopolies/CDC/WHO who are incentivized to see their budgets grow for their needed heroic efforts, the more motivated and somewhat morally justified they are in exaggerating dangers and trying to implement what is essentially a competition-less central plan. Again, numerous ideas begin spreading and shaping the environment. For example, the thinking goes as follows "the people and businessmen and "capitalists" are too focused on their own narrow interests to worry about saving mankind from the coming pandemic, there is seemingly no profit for them to make here" Much can be said here, but what we want to understand, is simply the emergence of the ideology and incentive structure that eventually materializes itself into what is now clearly before us, the rapid growth of a new economic-freedom stifling bureaucracy, just like the one Lenin created. This is essentially no different than how Communist ideology spread through people's minds so that an eventual spark could unite enough like-minded thinkers to take the sort of unified action needed to implement their ideas. Socialist/Communist ideology had been spreading and tried at numerous times before Lenin's spark finally occurred in an environment where the chain-reaction could continue. We find ourselves in a similar situation. Where a certain complex incentive structure, coupled with the usual dose of horrendous economic ignorance, is quickly evolving a political structure which by both, well intentioned necessity, as well as perverse incentives, will grow to paralize the market process just like Lenin did. If Bill Gates really understood how the world works and how to make it better and was still worried about some superbug wiping out mankind, which I personally believe there is little chance of happening, instead of trying to pair up with the numerous top-down-competition-less-bureaucratic-paralizing-expensive . However, since BIll gates seems to have never heard of Ludwig von Mises 

someone to heroically attempt to prevent such a scenario, and it could very well be the case that Mr. Gates is one of these people, and that an increasing number of World Health Organization and Centers for Disease Control ideologues and countless politicians and others would eventually have a mindset that makes taking global coordinated action to prevent suchh a potential disaster from happening. Since such 



Assuming that one is thoroughly convinced that something like this is bound to happen it potentially places Mr. Gates or whoever attempts to desperately do something to prevent it in a situation 


As happens so often with the mega rich, they want to work on their legacy, to be further remembered for some great cause, etc.  


 I think Gates is just utterly clueless regarding economics and other things. My guess is that 1) He is totally convinced that eventually some super-pandemic could wipe us out, especially as the world is more interconnected. I can totally understand how such a fear might motivate him to do what he is doing with the best of intentions... I dont fall for the silly right-wing attacks and simpkistic bullshit about Gates being some "power hungry" bad guy and all that simpistic semy-religious good vs evil bullshit.... My guess is Gates really believes he can make the world a betre place by getting mankind to take steps now.. Unfortunately... THis is where the utter economic ignorance comes in... Instead of simply educating and preaching beter capitalism and free market s which increase or ability to improve technology and perhaps prepare agains this in a a 100% easily verifiable and safe way.. He is trying to implement his master plan and thus inevitable already neeeded to coerce mankind to go along with whtever he feels is the solution.. so his problem is that he is totally economically ignorant.. he has 0 idea of how freedom and competition discover things.. He has NEVER mentioned ludwig von mises of F.A. Hayek so he simpkly does not have a fucking clue how the world works... Nuff said


