Production, consumption and economic calculation

Whenever a person works he produces his labor and whatever wealth it creates thus increasing the economic pie. If you are a freelancer you produce a product/service/wealth and trade it directly with society (customers) for money, and then trade the money back with society for the wealth you consume. If you work for a company, you produce your labor and trade it for money with your “employer” who combines it with the labor of others to produce a product/service/wealth which is then traded with society for the money from which your paycheck comes. Whether you are a freelancer, employee, or company, what is commonly referred to as sales revenue (your paycheck), is an estimate of the total amount of wealth produced. Costs, like employee wages which will be used by them to consume wealth(food,energy,etc.), are an estimate of how much wealth is consumed from the economic pie. And profits, which are the difference between sales revenue (production) and costs (consumption) are an estimate of by how much additional wealth the economic pie has grown. Again, a profitable order is an order (cell/person/company) that produces more than it consumes and is therefore self-sustaining/alive. The global economy or ‘Social Organism’ is really a vast collection of orders that are constantly trading with each other, each trade taking each participant/order from an inferior to a superior state of well-being from its perspective, otherwise the trade would not occur. When Carl trades a dollar for a hamburger he values the hamburger more than the dollar and the restaurant values the dollar more than the hamburger so the action of trading takes place, which like all action which is not coerced, takes each participant from an inferior to superior state of wellbeing.



The wealth that life/order needs can be attained by either force/violence/predation which diminishes the wealth/life of others and leads to life/order destroying retaliation, or by production and trade, which leads to the mutual benefit of both orders. Peace, in other words, the absence of force and violence as a means to acquire wealth, is what motivates and forces every mind/order to think about the needs of others in order to produce something of value and successfully engage in trade, inadvertently leading to the aforementioned division of knowledge and labor that makes civilization possible. As the great Ludwig von Mises reminds us: “Society has arisen out of the works of peace; the essence of society is peacemaking. Peace and not war is the father of all things.” As should become increasingly clear, peace and the freedom from coercion/violence it implies is what “turns on” the market process and is the key to socioeconomic prosperity. Most living things are not smart enough to engage in trade so they are left with the much simpler strategy of violence/predation. A strategy which was increasingly important the farther back we go in our evolution which helps further explain why the potential for violence and war is still so prevalent amongst us.
Since predation/theft is generally outlawed and peace encouraged, social orders (individuals or companies) are in cycles of production, trade, and consumption. 


Whenever a person works 


