The purpose of my campaign is to do what the great free-market economist Ludwig von Mises referred to as “the primary civic duty”: to spread an understanding of economic freedom.  Why are BMW, Ford, Microsoft, Google, Apple and all private sector companies constantly innovating and copying each other’s innovations thus reordering society in more prosperous states as fast as humanly possible/profitable? Because free human beings, in our role as consumers thanks to the tradition of ‘private property’ , have the ‘economic freedom to trade’ our hard-earned wealth for what we deem best. This ‘economic freedom’, as opposed to leading to chaos and ‘social injustice’ which is what the economically ignorant believe,  is what inadvertently “turns on” ‘economic competition’ and resulting socioeconomic order/life.  As cost-cutting ideas emerge and inevitably spread via competition leading relative prices to continuously fall, new profitable ideas arise and once again spread via competition in an endless cycle of knowledge generation/innovation/prosperity. Originally computers were very expensive, but continued competition/innovation made them cheaper/better/smaller which gave birth to our computerized world and the Internet and all the great things that flow from it. The more wealth is produced, the more wealth has to be offered in exchange for labor as entrepreneurs/companies/orders compete against each other for the labor they need which helps explain why the economic pie grows for everyone. Governments, being coercive MONOPOLIES which get their life-sustaining wealth through taxes/compulsion are thus immune to the competitive incentives which motivate the private sector to be efficient and innovative so they mostly waste our wealth and have us ignorantly arguing/fighting over how to control it. Mises again: “The issues of society's economic organization are every citizen's business. To master them to the best of one's ability is the duty of everyone.” 






The purpose of my campaign is to do what the great free-market economist Ludwig von Mises referred to as “the primary civic duty”: to spread an understanding of economic freedom which is what made . Why are BMW, Ford, Microsoft, Google, Apple and all private sector companies constantly innovating and copying each other’s innovations thus reordering society in more prosperous states as fast as humanly possible/profitable? 

Because free human beings, in our role as consumers thanks to the tradition of ‘private property’ , have the ‘economic freedom to trade’ our hard-earned wealth for what we deem best. This ‘economic freedom’, as opposed to leading to chaos and ‘social injustice’ which is what the economically ignorant believe, is what inadvertently “turns on” ‘economic competition’ and resulting socioeconomic order/life. 

As cost-cutting ideas emerge and inevitably spread via competition leading relative prices to continuously fall, new profitable ideas arise and once again spread via competition in an endless cycle of knowledge generation/innovation/prosperity. 

Originally computers were very expensive, but continued competition/innovation made them cheaper/better/smaller which gave birth to our computerized world and the Internet and all the great things that flow from it. 

The more wealth is produced, the more wealth has to be offered in exchange for labor as entrepreneurs/companies/orders compete against each other for the labor they need which helps explain why the economic pie grows for everyone. Governments, being coercive MONOPOLIES which get their life-sustaining wealth through taxes/compulsion are thus immune to the competitive incentives which motivate the private sector to be efficient and innovative so they mostly waste our wealth and have us ignorantly arguing/fighting over how to control it. Mises again: “The issues of society's economic organization are every citizen's business. To master them to the best of one's ability is the duty of everyone.”

