The great intellectual slayer of Socialism, Ludwig von Mises believed that if we didn't teach economic freedom and Capitalism to "the immense majority", then "there is no hope left for mankind". Yes! When will we end the economic ignorance that has citizens going along and even morally encouraging these counterproductive Coronavirus lockdowns that have allowed hordes of economically ignorant 'well-meaning scholars' like Dr. Anthony Fauci and numerous politicians to inadvertently destroy our freedom and economic prosperity? Mises' protégé, 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics Friedrich Hayek explains:

"Most people are still unwilling to face the most alarming lesson of modern history: that the greatest crimes of our time have been committed by governments that had the enthusiastic support of millions of people who were guided by moral impulses. It is simply not true that Hitler or Mussolini, Lenin or Stalin, appealed only to the worst instincts of their people: they also appealed to some of the feelings which also dominate contemporary democracies."

"It is necessary to realize that the sources of many of the most harmful agents in this world are often not evil men but high-minded idealists, and that in particular the foundations of totalitarian barbarism have been laid by honourable and well-meaning scholars who never recognized the offspring they produced."

Our freedom to choose transforms billions of free people into a global super-computer where all companies are motivated to innovate and learn from each other thus inadvertently cooperate to discover the best information with which to serve customers and reorder all of mankind. Freedom and competition, not coercive competition-immune government monopoly by 'experts', is what made America the greatest country on earth. Mises and Hayek saved us from Communism, now we must save ourselves from Coromunism by showing how “Freedom is The Ultimate Algorithm”!