# Intro

My name is Jorge Besada and I am running for Congress in Washington State' 9th District

I am computer guy, a contractor at Microsoft.

I was born in Cuba, a once prosperous country destroyed by economic fallacies which led many to adopt Socialism and thus inevitably bring oppression and poverty upon themselves. The purpose of my campaign is to help bring about world peace and quick technological advancement so that among numerous other benefits those of us who have more than 5 to 10 years left to live, like my parents, can even beat dying of old age. In order to do this we have to have a worldwide intellectual revolution where enough people understand how the world works, in other words, enough people familiarize themselves with the ideas of the economists usually referred to as "The Austrian School", but more specifically, Ludwig von Mises and especially his great protege 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics Friedrich  Hayek. If mankind does not catch up to these and like-minded men's ideas in time it will soon prove to be an evolutionary dead end. Our homo lineage has spent millions of years segregating itself into groups for hunting, killing, raping, and sometimes cannibalizing each other, this whole thing about tolerance, respecting people's property or views and resulting commercial as opposed to militaristic order is relatively foreign to our tribalistic instincts, and if the proper understanding of the human animal and both, the evolution and workings of the socioeconomic order, does not spread fast enough, the economically ignorant and now nuclear armed slightly smarter tribalistic apes will keep rolling the dice, both with the economy and constant warmongering, until we finally destroy ourselves. Hayek was not very optimistic:


In many ways the slightly smarter apes with nukes have been extremely fortunate to have even lasted this long without a civilization-ending nuclear war as Daniel Elsberg's book 'The Doomsday Machine' so chillingly captures:



There is only one simple and greatly misunderstood concept we have to properly grasp in order to make sense of the world, prevent our self-destruction, and within a few months quickly get mankind on a path to unimaginable socioeconomic prosperity. "selective evolution", or what is more commonly referred to as "Natural Selection".



American biologist Theodosius Dobzhansky is known for having written a famous essay titled “Nothing in Biology Makes Sense Except in the Light of Evolution.” Had he been familiar with the works of Friedrich Hayek he would have dropped the “in Biology” and realized that "Nothing Makes Sense Except in the Light of Evolution." Hayek summarizes what creates the world and what is needed to understand it when he writes:

“We understand now that all enduring structures above the level of the simplest atoms, and up to the brain and society, are the results of, and can be explained only in terms of, processes of selective evolution…” (Hayek F. , 1981, p. 158)(emphasis mine)


Whether we know much about natural selection or not, most of us associate it with people like Charles Darwin and the biological world of animals and living things, but natural selection also evolved the socioeconomic order and things like religions, laws, customs, language, and especially for our purposes, the many socioeconomic institutions that make up our modern economies like money, the banking and lending industries, interest rates and more. In other words, at a fundamental level natural selection creates both the biological as well as the socioeconomic orders and is indispensable for understanding how they have come into existence and behave.

Most people fear the concepts of natural selection and evolution with good reason, we don’t really understand them, especially when it comes to the concept of race and socioeconomic achievement. Popular phrases associated with evolution like Herbert Spencer’s “survival of the fittest” can scare us and keep us away from learning these vital subjects. Racist and erroneous ideologies like the ones that flourished in Hitler’s Germany were also heavily influenced by faulty evolutionary thought and still play a significant role today.

Natural selection is a simple process that creates order which is what life is all about. Life can be seen as a sort of ongoing chain-reaction of “order”. For example, if we could travel back in time about 4 billion years, there would have been no complex life forms like what we have today; there probably would have been what is commonly referred to as the “chemical soup”, which can be seen as a sort of chaotic sea of atoms/molecules. Out of this chemical soup, order and complexity arose and eventually those molecules became ordered in a way that led to the first living cells. Complexity and order continued to increase and eventually single cells were ordered in a way that led to the first multi-cellular life forms like plants, animals, eventually us humans, and now what the great British 19th century thinker Herbert Spencer referred to as ["The Social Organism"](https://oll.libertyfund.org/titles/spencer-the-man-versus-the-state-with-six-essays-on-government-society-and-freedom-lf-ed)

At the beginning of this process we could say that there was 0 or very little “biomass”, in other words, matter that was transformed and incorporated into these self-sustaining chain-reactions of order/life. Living things don’t just act randomly, they require precise knowledge/information to move the matter around in a way that becomes the wealth that keeps the “order” and thus life going. For billions of years, most information needed to create life/order was stored in genes, which changed very slowly via biological evolution. About 500 million years ago, life-forms with brains began to emerge which allowed information to be stored outside of genes leading to more flexible and superior decision-making. Eventually life-forms evolved that used their brains to be increasingly “social”, and cooperate with others to reach even higher levels of productivity/fitness/competitiveness, which leads us to ourselves, anatomically-modern man. 

Tribal man was doing relatively great compared to other species, instead of hiding in the trees like his recent ancestors about 3 million years ago, he became the ultimate carnivorous predator, his brain tripled in size, he hunted megafauna to extinction and easily spread and adapted himself to every corner of the world, but with at most about 150 brains per tribe and most people knowing how to do similar things, which meant information was more or less repeated across each brain, the social order had to remain relatively simple and backward/tribal. Then, during the last 30,000 or so years, something wonderful happened, something as momentous in the history of life as the emergence of biological evolution and genetics, the so-called ‘market process’ and its various components like trade, money, profit/loss calculation, economic competition and interest rate coordination, began to emerge and radically alter the way the social order worked. As wonderful as this was, information had been limited by the amount of human brains needed to store it and their ability to process it quickly and efficiently, until computers and software came along which brings us to the present, where software, artificial intelligence, and robotics are taking productivity and progress to new heights.

The human body and the numerous "systems" that coordinate it like the respiratory, nervous, and digestive "systems", is the result of the actions of some 30 trillion cells but obviously NOT the result of any conscious planning, designing, or conspiring by them. Thanks to the likes of Darwin and a modern understanding of genetics we can understand how natural selection was the inadvertent "designer" of such systems and complex order. Similarly, the global socioeconomic order, Spencer's 'Social Organism'  is also coordinated by a "system", by what Hayek and Mises, referred to as "The Market Process". 'The Market Process' and the "parts" it is composed of like money, prices, economic competition, interest rates, and the legal/religious/governmental frameworks that sustain it, "are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design" [(Adam Ferguson)](https://www.adamsmith.org/blog/adam-fergusons-great-insight). The 'market process' shares this trait with language which is also a complex mechanism that is the result of human action but was not consciously designed or invented by people/cells. Just like cells are unaware of why they act the way they do and how natural selection has evolved them over billions of years to be parts of complex multi-cellular organisms, so is mankind ignorant of how "processes of selective evolution" have shaped "the brain and society" and created "the market process" which coordinates our actions to create the global socioeconomic order. 

Standing on Mises' shoulders, who provided him with a superb explanation of the workings of the economy and thus all aspects of the market process(money/prices/'interest rates'/etc.) and much, much, much more, Hayek would go on to explain how in a few thousand years culture and 'the market process' had co-evolved to transform homo sapiens, from tribes of slightly smarter vicious apes, into today's massively complex global socioeconomic order/'Social Organism' thus arguably becoming the first person in the history of mankind to provide a complete evolutionary understanding of how the world works. 


Hayek is still is so far ahead of our time that even today's leading thinkers, like renowned popular science writer Matt Ridley whose last two books I highly recommend (The Evolution of Everything, and How Innovation Works: And Why it Flourishes in Freedom ) , are just beginning to catch up to the enormity of his insights. Ridley humbly acknowledges this in the following 2011 speech:

>"As someone who came to Fredrick von Hayek comparatively late in life, I'm still catching up with him...Indeed, many of the insights I thought I had discovered in my own readings and writings on the frontier of evolutionary biology and economics it turns out Hayek had long before me...It's Hayek who first puts it all together." - [Matt Ridley](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pG-grkJPU8Q)


On March 20th 2019, F.A. Hayek's Nobel Memorial Prize was auctioned off in England's Famed Sotheby's auction house shattering the previous record for an online auction. It took decades before Darwin's monumental insights were widely appreciated by the Western world, mankind finds itself in a similar situation with Hayek.

So how did Hayek 'put it all together'?. Easy. Hayek realized that "all enduring structures above the level of the simplest atoms, and up to the brain and society" require precise information to sustain/coordinate/expand their order. If one understands how information coordinates the biological and social orders, then one understands how the world works. It is that simple! Let's briefly try to get a feel for how Hayek saw the world and easily see how such wisdom is the key to making sense of and fixing our problems before it is too late. What follows next can be seen as divided into three parts, 1st an overview of 'The Market Process' and key aspects like Money, Inflation, Economic Competition, Prices, The Impossibility of Socialism, Interest Rates, Regulations, Patents, and Government. As we do so we want to keep or eye on how information guides/creates/expands the socioeconomic order. 2nd a brief introduction to Hayekian cultural evolution, and third we apply the concepts discussed to untangle our pressing problems related to the economy, race, and the Conoravirus and much that is related.

## interest rates



Finance/banking and interest rates are other vital aspects of the 'Market Process'. Besides the more obvious function of safeguarding savings and pooling the savings of many people to allow the execution of bigger projects which would have been impossible if entrepreneurs were limited to the few savings/wealth of friends and family, banking/finance and more specifically the phenomenon of 'interest rates' also play a nearly miraculous role. For example, assuming interest rates are at around 5%, some people, those who have no desire to start a business or have inferior business ideas they expect will have a return on investment (ROI) lower than 8%, will be motivated to lend their money to banks to earn ~5% interest and by doing so they refrain from consumption/spending, thus increasing the amount of wealth/savings available for the future borrowers to then consume.  Something amazing is going on here!!!. Interest rates motivate the accumulation of wealth and movement of money from minds/CPUs that have inferior ideas that can grow the economic pie slowly (0-5% rate) to minds that have superior ideas and can grow the economy faster (> 5%) thus giving a tremendous sort of 'computational boost' to society. To the economically ignorant, banks/financers/money-lenders, making a living by charging interest without seemingly having to "sweat" seems immoral/unethical, but the economically woke can see how they play a vital role in pairing saved wealth with the best ideas and the interest rate is like a barometer that helps decide whether a mind should do the saving or borrowing. 

It is important to realize that, as the great economist Henry Hazlitt writes in his classic “Economics in One Lesson”:

>“ “Saving,” in short, in the modern world, is only another form of spending. The usual difference is that the money is turned over to someone else to spend on means to increase production”,

and that this increase in production has to be at least large enough to pay back the loan with interest. The economically ignorant masses are unaware of the fact that thanks to the finance/banking sector, the savings of the much vilified "rich" is the very wealth that private sector workers consume while they go about increasing production by an amount greater than the current interest rate. Taxing "the rich" just removes this wealth and the private sector jobs it would otherwise sustain and gives it to government where it is inefficiently consumed while producing little in comparison leading to massive relative losses. Taxes, besides being an obvious burden on tax-payers, simply destroy private sector jobs.

A society that saves little is sort of stuck in the same cycle of production and consumption and is unable to nourish a new business/idea/restructuring for the time it might take before it produces wealth. Where would our 10,000 airplane factory builders get the wealth to nourish their consumption for the 2 years it would take them to even begin making new planes if others had not saved it? How long would it take for such savings/wealth to exist if savings grow very slowly? On the other hand, a society that saves a lot is constantly making wealth available for superior ideas/businesses/restructurings and thus growing and advancing technologically much faster.  Interest rates and the freedom to charge them is one of the reasons why "the market process" took europeans to prominence, while the Islamic world, which has very strong prohibitions on charnging interest, remained relatively behind.

The so-called 'Business Cycles' where the economy goes from boom to bust is simply due to the seemingly obvious fact that governments via their Central Banks creating money which is then given to businesses does NOT create the REAL wealth businesses need to consume while they go about production. For example, again, our airplane factory workers must consume/use the concrete/materials/food/energy/transportation/shelter that they (as well as their dependents/family) need while they produce the factory. If the needed real wealth or the means/wealth to create it already exists, because it had been previously produced and then remains unconsumed/SAVED, good, there is a chance that they end up producing more than they consumed thus being profitable and therefore increasing the economic pie. But if instead of real wealth/savings, governments/banks simply increase the amount money while no corresponding increase in REAL wealth/savings exists, all it is doing is increasing the amount of money per unit of wealth, thus higher prices than would have otherwise been the case, which eventually causes many entrepreneurs to face the obvious fact that there did not exist enough wealth at the right prices to complete their projects in a profitable way, therefore a sort of bust/chaos and massive loss of wealth will eventually happen as inevitable bankruptcies occur.

Sustaining the men’s consumption for a year to create some partly-finished building/machines and then having to abandon the project because prices have increased in a manner that no longer makes the project profitable leads to 0 planes/wealth for a massive net loss of wealth. Even easier, imagine two wealthy couples each with a child who both want to go out on the same night (project) but there is only one baby-sitter(savings/wealth), no amount of money will allow both to execute their plans, what they need is more savings/wealth/baby-sitters. Bottom line, governments via their central banks and money-creation can’t help the economy and are the source of disastrous business “boom/bust” cycles. We quote the great economist Ludwig von Mises:

“However conditions may be, it is certain that no manipulations of the banks can provide the economic system with capital goods[baby-sitter/wealth]. What is needed for a sound expansion of production is additional capital goods[savings/wealth], not money… The boom is built on the sands of banknotes and deposits. It must collapse.” (Mises, p. 559)[present author]




We have reached the end of our purely economic discussion. Again, try to envision the 8 billion brains, each using profit/loss calculation to discover the most productive way to order its private property or section of the social order, creating and spreading superior information and subsequent order thanks to global free-trade and the resulting competitive knowledge discovery. Envision more production than consumption leading to saved and thus accumulated wealth which thanks to interest-rates/and the banking finance industry is then put under the control of minds that lead to an even faster rate of production and transformation of the socioeconomic order. Generally speaking, the slightly smarter apes and their mainstream leaders and "experts" have little idea how the socioeconomic order works. They went from believing that prosperity arose from doing the will of the Gods, to then believing in the central plans of the "great leaders" and their "experts" via the full-blown Socialism/Communism of the Soviet Union and China, and now find himself increasingly believing, once again, in the "experts", this time the Central Bankers at the Federal Reserve and so on and their mythical mathematical models. Just like Alan came to be seen by the economically ignorant inhabitants of BlueIsle as the great order-maker, so has mankind fooled itself into believing that the central bankers, not "the market process", are the great order-makers.  

Amazingly, "the market process" and resulting civilization or social organism is to a significant degree the emergent behaviour of a single concept or tradition, private property and the freedom and competitive knwledge discovery and order that emerges from it.
 How wonderful and somewhat counter-intuitive it is, that the more freedom we have, the more we get to live our lives as we wish, but also maximize our contribution to the global supercomputer or social organism we have inadvertently become parts of. Unfortunately the average slightly smarter ape has no idea how the social organism works or much less how it has evolved. Why? because just like natural selection evolved the numerous mechanisms that turned solitary cells into complex multicellular organisms, so has natural selection, not human reason or "great leaders" or thinkers created "the makrket process". How this happened is what we briefly discuss next.










A world-wide gold standard which would have prevented government from creating more money to aquire more wealth from the private sector leaving it with higher prices, would have prevented public sectors from essentially wasting about 1/4th of all wealth produced each year, and all prices, not just those of the highly productive and relatively unregulated tech products, would be going down, allowing manking's savings to afford much more, this additional wealth and progress is additionally taxed away by governments who can now obtain wealth by just creating money and trading for it. Unfortunately the economically ignorant public thinks all is great as long as prices remain stable or only go up a little, when in reality they should be going down. 
\
 unlike mainstream economists who mistakenly use the tools of the much simpler physical sciences and thus end up creating ultimately mythical mathematical models that can't possibly capture the complexity generated by nearly 8 billion brains each with over 100 trillion synapses, we want to envision the REAL world as it truly exists

use childish and ultimately mythical mathematical models that can't possible capture the complexity generated by billions of brains, we want to look at the real  


33 hayekian

## Hayekian Cultural Evolution


Having discussed several aspects of the market process like economic competition and interest rates, as well as how 'private property' inadvertently leads to its emergence and civilization, we can now discuss how 'processes of selective evolution' evolved the 'market process'/'Social Organism' without conscious human planning or design. As Carl Menger asks:

>"How can it be that institutions that serve the common welfare and are extremely significant for its development come into being without a common will directed towards establishing [them?"](https://cdn.mises.org/Investigations%20into%20the%20Method%20of%20the%20Social%20Sciences_5.pdf) 

Again, how is it that in just a few thousand years, dangerous slightly smarter apes evolved this incredible sort of economic matrix we are parts of without anyone really planning it? Not only was the 'market process' and resulting commercial society not designed by people, most people hate it and want "Central Planning by Experts" and thus its complete destruction. Again, how did civilization arise without human design and constantly taming the tribalistic innate brutality of the slightly smarter apes?


Hayek answered this monumentally important question more or less as follows. If we envision mankind about 50,000 years ago, we would see a sort of petri-dish of competing cultures(languages/concepts/rules/laws) that are being 'naturally selected' based on their ability to grow the groups that contain them relative to other groups. Customs/concepts/rules/etc. that inadvertently cause their respective social orders to grow whether it'd be via conquest, successful defense, migration into, imitation, etc., will expand their order AND the very customs/concepts/rules/ideologies/etc. which helped them thrive. Every rule/law has an effect in the productivity/growth/survival of a social order. Given that a society/tribe is likely to have dozens of such rules it is impossible to know the exact impact of any one of them when considering the overall competitiveness of a society/order. For simplicity's sake let us focus on just one rule, what is the optimal punishment for theft? Let's assume that in culture/tribe 'A' when a man steals he is killed which might deter many thefts but decreases the number of people in the group and all the productivity that this person might contribute in the future. In tribe 'B' they cut off a hand, and in tribe 'C' 10 lashes. Let's assume that tribe A's custom/rule of killing the thief actually proved to lead to a "fitter" social order. Perhaps it turns out that cutting off the hand led to an unproductive person that became a big drain on rest of tribe and a weak/useless fighter when it came to offense/defense so it was better if he was dead, and that lashes proved to not be enough of a deterrent which led to many thefts and retaliatory violence which turned out to be more costly than losing a member of the tribe. For simplicity's sake let us assume that this was by far the most important custom/rule affecting the growth/fitness of the social order, and that because of this, tribe/culture 'A' eventually displaced the others so that its kill-thieves rule/custom survived while the other punishments disappeared. The kill-thieves rule, is the result of human action, yet not the result of conscious human planning or design with the reasoned or conscious goal of having a more competitive/fit social order. The real designing of this rule or cultural element was made, not by innate instinct or human reason, but by 'natural selection'/competition/'group selection'/'cultural evolution'.

This concept of 'cultural evolution'/'group selection' allowed Hayek to identify a sort of 'third dimension'/source/mechanism for discovering/spreading knowledge which was neither instinctual (tied to our genetics/biology), nor the result of our conscious reason. As Hayek liked to refer to it, it was a mechanism for creating/spreading information which laid "between instinct and reason" and is the largely unknown/understood source of knowledge that played the vital role in the evolution of the market process and those related social institutions. Omnipresence, the ability to be everywhere at all times is another concept that would provide a great benefit to religions that used it to describe their God. Without God's omnipresence you could get away with breaking the rules that give society order and only have to face the consequences brought upon by fellow men. But if God is everywhere, watching your every move, you will be much more likely to follow those rules that give your society a productive social order. A similar case can be made for the concepts of "sin" and "evil". Did clever men "conspire" to create our religions to control us? Of course not, like the 'market process' they too "are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design". 

These concepts/rules help enforce constraints on what for brevity's sake we'll refer to as our evolved tribalistic('small group')/primate-like nature/instincts, which for millions of years were shaped by things like cannibalism, rape,tribal warfare and other practices which are now generally seen as abhorrent and whose relatively recent suppression via culture/religion/law enabled the emergence of the 'Social Organism'/civilization. Growing up is about programming/molding our flexible brains into learning all of these rules and thus rewiring them to be as happy as possible even though many of these restrictions go counter to our 'uncivilized instincts'. We have tentacle porn, Q.E.D. Obviously the molding/brainwashing fails quite often when we engage in rape/torture/militarism/war/"sin" and more. One can easily speculate about how the simplicity and pro-private-property character of Judaism's Ten Commandments ('Thou shalt not steal/murder/'commit adultery'/ 'covet(neighbor's…)) and monotheism helped it be more 'viral' and thus be 'naturally selected' over other beliefs/religions that might have been more complex/confusing/contradictory and also be less respectful of private property thus inadvertently foregoing the emergence of the market process and corresponding 'Social Organism'/Civilization. 


Just like natural selection modified solitary cells to have tumor suppressing genes to control rapid cell division/proliferation (cancer) in order to cooperate in a multi-cellular organism, so has cultural evolution likewise molded homo sapiens to suppress these "uncivilized" animalistic barbaric tendencies. As Hayek tells us:

>"Man has been civilized very much against his wishes. It was the price he had to pay for being able to raise a larger number of children. We especially dislike the economic disciplines… The indispensable rules of the free society require from us much that is unpleasant, such as suffering competition from others, seeing others being richer than ourselves, etc., etc." [(Hayek "Law, Legislation and Liberty, Volume 3: The Political Order of a Free People" 1981, p. 168)](https://books.google.com/books?id=malYAQAAQBAJ&pg=RA2-PA168&lpg=RA2-PA168&dq=such+as+suffering+competition+from+others,+seeing+others+being+richer+than+ourselves&source=bl&ots=kU2cMHmM0M&sig=ACfU3U1ebW7PN3x-KT4wq6sAFW2yairvrQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjzsbHQ4fDoAhVgmHIEHcT4BXoQ6AEwAXoECAQQLw#v=onepage&q=such%20as%20suffering%20competition%20from%20others%2C%20seeing%20others%20being%20richer%20than%20ourselves&f=false)



Knowing that 'private property' is the simple concept/institution that leads to a chain-reaction of incentives which creates the Social Organism, we can easily see that those tribes/orders whose customs/religions inadvertently became more peaceful and thus less violent, extended peace/friendship/trade to those outside the tribe, etc., in other words, those who tended to respect 'private property' and thus individual freedom more and more, would become more advanced/powerful, and as they grew, they would inadvertently spread the very customs (increasing respect for private property, tolerance, and commercial culture that emerges from it) and evolving economic system (market process/capitalism) that allowed them to reach such relative heights. Once again, the true sort of 'designer' of the market process was our old friend 'natural selection'/competition acting on groups/cultures, inadvertently selecting those customs/ideologies/concepts as if they were genes. We are now in a position to understand Hayek when he writes:

>"The ultimate decision about what is accepted as right and wrong will be made not by individual human wisdom but by the disappearance of the groups that have adhered to the "wrong" beliefs."

>"Culture is neither natural nor artificial, neither genetically transmitted nor rationally designed. It is a tradition of learnt rules of conduct which have never been 'invented' and whose functions the acting individuals usually do not understand" (Hayek "Law, Legislation and Liberty, Volume 3: The Political Order of a Free People" 1981, p. 155)

>"To understand our civilisation, one must appreciate that the extended order resulted not from human design or intention but spontaneously: it arose from unintentionally conforming to certain traditional and largely moral practices, many of which men tend to dislike, whose significance they usually fail to understand, whose validity they cannot prove, and which have nonetheless fairly rapidly spread by means of an evolutionary selection - the comparative increase of population and wealth - of those groups that happened to follow them. The unwitting, reluctant, even painful adoption of these practices kept these groups together, increased their access to valuable information of all sorts, and enabled them to be 'fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it' (Genesis 1:28). This process is perhaps the least appreciated facet of human evolution." [(Hayek, "The Fatal Conceit" p. 6)](https://books.google.com/books?id=YQLYAQAAQBAJ&pg=PA6&lpg=PA6&dq=%22process+is+perhaps+the+least+appreciated+facet+of+human+evolution%22&source=bl&ots=OdrpACuHR_&sig=ACfU3U0UE4tgtm1gzIQrjd-chvvfdgZppg&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjhwtC85fDoAhXhlHIEHRe7BEQQ6AEwBXoECAcQOw#v=onepage&q=%22process%20is%20perhaps%20the%20least%20appreciated%20facet%20of%20human%20evolution%22&f=false)

### Cultural, not Biological Evolution is the key

We must stress the fact that the cultural evolutionary process which has created 'the market process' is much, much faster than the slow genetic biological evolution thus rendering slight genetic differences between races/populations largely irrelevant. As Hayek tells us:

>"With respect to what we mean by cultural evolution in a narrower sense, that is, the fast and accelerating development of civilization…Since it differs from genetic evolution by relying on the transmission of acquired properties, it is very fast, and once it dominates, it swamps genetic evolution" [(Hayek "Law, Legislation and Liberty, Volume 3: The Political Order of a Free People" 1981, p. 156)](https://books.google.com/books?id=9IpEBAAAQBAJ&pg=PA489&lpg=PA489&dq=%22With+respect+to+what+we+mean+by+cultural+evolution+in+a+narrower+sense,+that+is,+the+fast+and+accelerating%22&source=bl&ots=unmroxTPbu&sig=ACfU3U1hRwunoRJDJ9cd_DAAu0YcZ-uEoA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjZkY6Hw_jmAhWBMX0KHbatDF4Q6AEwAHoECAYQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22With%20respect%20to%20what%20we%20mean%20by%20cultural%20evolution%20in%20a%20narrower%20sense%2C%20that%20is%2C%20the%20fast%20and%20accelerating%22&f=false)

Also:

>"…biological evolution would have been far too slow to alter or replace man's innate responses in the course of the ten or twenty thousand years during which civilisation has developed…. Thus it hardly seems possible that civilisation and culture are genetically determined and transmitted. They have to be learnt by all alike through tradition." (Hayek's 'The Fatal Conceit' page 16)

As numerous great free-market thinkers like Mises, [Robert Higgs](https://mises.org/library/rise-west), and [Ralph Raico](https://mises.org/library/european-miracle-0) just to name a few have shown, during the last couple thousand years different groups of people in widely dispersed locations like, the Middle East, Asia, and Europe, traded the sort of title for most socioeconomically advanced places in the planet. With respect to the momentary lead in terms of civilization that China had, and the real reason why whites/Europeans had a recent relative lead, Hayek writes:

>"…the history of China provides many instances of government attempts to enforce so perfect an order that innovation became impossible. This country, technologically and scientifically developed so far ahead of Europe that, to give only one illustration, it had ten oil wells operating on one stretch of the river Po already in the twelfth century, certainly owed its later stagnation, but not its early progress, to the manipulatory power of its governments. What led the greatly advanced civilisation of China to fall behind Europe was its government's clamping down so tightly as to leave no room for new developments, while, as remarked in the last chapter, Europe probably owes its extraordinary expansion in the Middle Ages to its political anarchy" [(Hayek's 'The Fatal Conceit' page 44)](https://books.google.com/books?id=YQLYAQAAQBAJ&pg=PA45&lpg=PA45&dq=%22Europe+probably+owes+its+extraordinary+expansion+in+the+Middle+Ages+to+its+political+anarchy%22&source=bl&ots=OdrpACuIRZ&sig=ACfU3U0bJQJuY3PuMN0tExE9cXiIi_mO7Q&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjH94Xs5fDoAhW8knIEHWHYBS4Q6AEwBHoECAsQOA#v=onepage&q=%22Europe%20probably%20owes%20its%20extraordinary%20expansion%20in%20the%20Middle%20Ages%20to%20its%20political%20anarchy%22&f=false)

Essentially the Chinese Government in the 12th century , prevented cultural evolution from evolving superior and more business-friendly customs, while europe, with its decentralized and thus competitive kingdoms was able to do so and build a significant lead. However, it is easy to see that at least compared to its recent past, from the 1980s it is china that has been moving more towards free-trade and capitalism while the US heads in the other direction. 


The "political anarchy" Hayek referred to in earlier quote just means that there was no central authority preventing/monopolizing legal/religious/moral/ethical knowledge and thus preventing the superior knowledge-discovery that cultural evolution/competition brings about. Not only does government stamp out competition which is the main selective/competitive process that helps us discover what is best in terms of how to go about providing goods and services but also what rules/laws, judicial/penal/transportation systems and more are best. Since freedom, decentralization, and the economic/legal/moral competition it creates is the best way to discover superior information and subsequent order, why not allow freedom/competition in things we usually associate with monopolistic governments like the legal and penal systems and more? The cultural evolutionary/competitive process that has shaped religions and more recently secular governments which provide such governmental functions has been happening blindly, and has been largely tied to the religious myths we inevitably see as absolutes, which explains why the legal/penal systems are still draped in religious-like mysticism. Think of priestly judges and their costumes/robes, temple-like court buildings/etc., but once we understand the competitive process we can use it to our advantage. Imagine if people could own large chunks of land and have more sovereignty or freedom as to what laws/rules people should abide by in them. Today the knowledge of how to plan a city, what laws/rules we should follow, what should be the repercussions of breaking such rules/laws, how to design a transportation/legal/penal system and so much more comes about the bureaucratic-monopolized-politicized process that shapes the inefficient public sector. By allowing people the freedom to create such cities we introduce competition in these areas which will discover superior laws/rules/contracts, ways to build transportation systems, ways to deal with people who break the rules and so on. If people wanted to move to such cities they would just sign a contract saying that they would abide by its rules, which is no different than what we do today when we move to a new country/state, which is just agreeing to abide by certain rules. This is similar to choosing product A over product B. In this case people are selecting one set of laws/rules over the other, nourishing a better social order/information while starving an inferior one. They vote for a better system with their feet.


We are done with the more theoretical aspects of this video. We discussed how the market process and its various components like money, prices, economic competition and interest rates create the socioeconomic order and also discussed how cultural evolution, in other words, competition among groups and their religions/rules/ideologies, is what played the leading role in the creation/evolution of the market process and resulting civilization. 

THis process kept updating the software or culture that brainwashed dangerous slightly smarter intuitively communist tribal apes into respecting private property and thus individual freedom more and more. Again, The process was more the result of cultural evolution/natural selection than our "reason". Had human "reason" been the designer of such a wonderful matrix we are parts of, its workings would have already been clearly described in our religious texts/etc, but obviously this is not the case, hardly anyone in the planet has the slightest clue how respect for private proeprty and resulting competitive knowledge discovery as opposed to "central planning by experts" is the key to order and harmony as opposed to chaos, "social injustice", and exploitation. Hayek summarizes: 


>"We have never designed our economic system. We were not intelligent enough for that. We have stumbled into it and it has carried us to unforeseen heights and given rise to ambitions which may yet lead us to destroy it." [(Hayek F. A., 1981, p. 164)](https://books.google.com/books?id=9IpEBAAAQBAJ&pg=PA496&lpg=PA496&dq=%22We+have+never+designed+our+economic+system.+We+were+not+intelligent+enough+for+that.%22&source=bl&ots=unmrkCWHht&sig=ACfU3U3LTxMBTWY7xlzDtCXk_33E3TM_mQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjK8IzPs-7mAhUJvp4KHdyOB8UQ6AEwAHoECAgQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22We%20have%20never%20designed%20our%20economic%20system.%20We%20were%20not%20intelligent%20enough%20for%20that.%22&f=false)

With respect to private property:

>"…I am quite convinced nobody invented it for a known purpose, and to me the proof of this is that even now hardly anybody yet understands what the advantages of private property and the market society are." (Hayek essay "Individual and Collective Aims" published in "On Toleration" ISBN 0-19-827529-3)




We now apply such wisdom to our most pressing problems.


Given mankind's current ignorance of how the socioeconomic order works and has evolved(Mises/Hayek/etc. are still not mainstream), which is something that has potentially little to do with race, it is quite understandable how various race-related fallacies which equate civilization with 'white people'/race, like British/European Imperialism and Nazism, dominated much of the last few centuries and are still very influential today.The fact that modern Capitalism arose in Europe which is populated by white people and took them to relative prominence for a while is adding yet another polarizing fallacy to the usual economically ignorant anti-Capitalist sentiment. The relative technological lead that Capitalism brought whites easily explains their fallacious racist ideologies which justified their slavery and conquests. Historian Tooley summarizes the thinking of the times,

“European states had the right to conquer peoples because they were inferior and needed organizing for the good of the human race, and advanced states had the duty to conquer these peoples in order to pull them upward(at least some distance) toward the civilized level already achieved by the Europeans… As British imperialist Cecil Rhodes put it in 1877: “I contend that we are the finest race in the world and that the more of the world we inhibit, the better it is for the human race.” ” (Tooley, p. 17).

 During the American occupation of the Philippines Senator Albert J. Beveridge gives us another example of the mindset of the day when he said

“My own belief is that there are not 100 men among them who comprehend what Anglo-Saxon self-government even means, and there are over 5,000,000 people to be governed. It has been charged that our conduct of the war has been cruel. Senators, it has been the reverse...Senators must remember that we are not dealing with Americans or Europeans. We are dealing with Orientals.”

Religious explanations also abounded, for example, Beveridge also reflected widely held views when he said that:

 “God has not been preparing the English-speaking and Teutonic peoples for a thousand years for nothing but vain and idle self-contemplation and self-admiration. No! He has made us the master organizers of the world to establish system where chaos reigns. He has given us the spirit of progress to overwhelm the forces of reaction throughout the earth. He has made us adepts in government that we may administer government among savage and senile peoples. Were it not for such a force as this the world would relapse into barbarism and night. And of all our race He has marked the American people as His chosen nation to finally lead in the regeneration of the world. This is the divine mission of America, and it holds for us all the profit, all the glory, all the happiness possible to man. We are trustees of the world’s progress, guardians of its righteous peace.”[252]

This sort of thinking coupled with the fact that there were only so many “backwards people” whose lands could be plundered/“civilized” eventually created tensions that would help lead to WWI.

It is unfortunate that such disastrous fallacies dominated the thinking of the times, but what can we do, we are after all slightly smarter apes. Fortunately such fallacies were widely overcome and is a process that to various degrees is still happening.




Certainly at least some white people erroneously believe that civilization and prosperity is somehow tied to their race and understandably so these people tend to be more against immigration which rightly bothers those like myself who favor more freedom to immigrate to the US/Europe/everywhere. Again, as just discussed, race is relatively insignificant, just a few thousand years ago all of our ancestors were uncivilized tribalistic rapists and murderers. Although it is certainly true that there must be differences in mental ability just like there are differences in physical ones, whatever minute differences might exist are largely irrelevant. The explosion in relative human prosperity and technology mankind has stumbled upon during the last 2000 years has little to do with biological differences and much more to do with the expansion of the global 'division of labor and information'/free-trade/competition/Capitalism, etc. Just like ignorance of economics and biology had the white man of the 1700s mistakenly bossing around non-whites, the same ignorance has mankind intensifying socioeconomic chaos and damaging race-relations.

To one economically ignorant faction (the political "Left"/"Democrats"/"Liberals"), the political "Right"/"Republicans"/"Conservatives" is just the "racist white man who uses capitalism to exploit and maintain the status quo for his benefit and Donald Trump and all the other white 'conservative' leaders are the perfect embodiment of this fact". That's pretty much it. It is so-called "identity politics", where the "racist white man" oppresses or discriminates against various groups/"identities"(women/minorities) and overturning such supposed political/economic oppression is what is needed to fix the world's problems by sharing more wealth and funding social programs that treat everyone fairly/equitably and supposedly fix what they perceive are the inherent problems/instabilities/injustices of free-markets or capitalism. Understandibly so, to the so-called "Left", human nature is bad, it obviously leads to greed, and exploitation, etc. and obviously we need an all-powerful government controlled by experts and well-intentioned people to properly educate and coerce mankind into goodness because freedom obviously leads to injustices/imperialism/etc. Their economic ignorance is unaware of how freedom does the opposite, it puts immense pressure on us to treat and serve everyone equally and as productively and efficiently as possible. But again, for very understandable reasons the slightly smarter apes without an understanding of economics always fall civilization-destroying Socialism.


Many whites/liberals, with the best of intentions, might be ashamed of the imperialist past of their ancestors or of the racism of their parents/uncles/etc. and erroneously believe that such a past/racism is a significant factor in the relative underachievement or problems of other groups/minorities/blacks/etc. These are the increasing number of whites/liberals who essentially believe that racism towards blacks must be the overwhelming factor in their relative poverty/suffering and are willing to tolerate any additional tax or government program which can supposedly fix the problem and are also willing to look the other way as understandably frustraded blacks and their well-meaning white supporters riot to force some kind of change.  



 This focus on racism is a gigantic intellectual error. The relative damage done by whatever "racism" towards minorities an increasingly dwindling number "racist white men" might have is incomparable to and exacerbated by the horrendous economic ignorance that leads to things like minimum wage laws, the truly racist War On Drugs and resulting mass incarceration, the perverse incentives that arise out of numerous welfare schemes, and socialist-share-the-wealth-via-massive-government-monopoly policies. But the economically ignorant masses are understandably focused on whatever racism they can and do find which further intensifies their misguided socialist economic policies and blame of the "white man" which understandably further increases the polarization that is tearing our nation apart.
So again, both groups are wrong. If a human being can grow up and learn something as complex as a language, which can take even the brightest of people years to master, everyone has more than enough intelligence to understand the basics of how freedom, privatization, and open borders are the keys to rapid socioeconomic progress. Clever economic education/marketing is obviously the key.



### Economic ignorance is the root cause of the relative poverty of "minorities"/blacks

The overwhelming factor in the relative underachievement of "minorities" compared to "whites", especially African Americans, is simply due to the fact that blacks find themselves (due to obvious historical factors like slavery and ongoing racism) in an environment where the economic fallacies which lead to central planning/Socialism (take from others to redistribute equally via huge monopolistic gov. bureaucracies) are even more convincing/viral. If white people and pretty much every slightly smarter ape hates the rich and capitalism and wants to see redistribution of wealth via government experts as the solution to every problem, it makes perfect sense that such sentiment would be much stronger with blacks. For example, perhaps America's most famous black leader, Martin Luther King, like most other prominent black political leaders and intellectuals, had little understanding of economics, and for reasons already hinted at, his socioeconomic views leaned more towards Socialism. One of today’s leading mainstream African American intellectuals, Michael Eric Dyson writes:

>“King also contended, in 1967, that “the roots [of economic injustice] are in the system rather than in men or faulty operations.” In a remarkable statement in a speech he gave to his staff in 1966, King laid out the ideological basis for his deepened assault on poverty, economic injustice, and class inequality:

>>We are now making demands that will cost the nation something. You can’t talk about solving the economic problem of the Negro without talking about billions of dollars. You can’t talk about ending slums without first saying profit must be taken out of slums. You’re really tampering and getting on dangerous ground because you are messing with folk then. You are messing with the captains of industry….Now this means that we are treading in difficult waters, because it really means that we are saying that something is wrong… with capitalism….There must be a better distribution of wealth and maybe America must move toward a Democratic Socialism

>This statement is remarkable since King rarely allowed his positive response to democratic socialism to be recorded. His usual practice, according to one of his aides, was to demand that they “turn off the tape recorder” while he expounded on the virtues of “what he called democratic socialism, and he said, ‘I can’t say this publicly, and if you say I said it I’m not gonna admit to it.’ ” King “didn’t believe that capitalism as it was constructed could meet the needs of poor people” ” [(Dyson,"I may not Get There with You: The True Martin Luther King, Jr" p. 88)](https://books.google.com/books?id=F7ljj_iyQcwC&pg=PA87&lpg=PA87&dq=%22King+also+contended,+in+1967,+that+%E2%80%9Cthe+roots+%5Bof+economic+injustice%5D+are+in+the+system+rather+than+in+men%22&source=bl&ots=aiAd2iTj9v&sig=ACfU3U2wI2T3iw9aW7v1OF8Qx75vPbFZsA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjG6s78xvjmAhWVnp4KHbATCZYQ6AEwAHoECAEQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22King%20also%20contended%2C%20in%201967%2C%20that%20%E2%80%9Cthe%20roots%20%5Bof%20economic%20injustice%5D%20are%20in%20the%20system%20rather%20than%20in%20men%22&f=false)

So understandably MLK had to keep his Socialist socioeconomic views under wraps but it was hard to conceal the fact that he was often surrounded by communists. Another famous American black leader, Malcolm X, sent a letter to President Truman letting him know that [“I have always been a communist”]. Perhaps the most famous international black leader, South Africa’s Nelson Mandela who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993 is also a Socialist ideologue. In a statement at the beginning of the trial that would send him to jail for 27 years he said:

>“We all accept the need for some form of socialism to enable our people to catch up with the advanced countries of this world and to overcome their legacy of extreme poverty...I should tie myself to no particular system of society other than of [socialism.” ]

The Black Lives Matters organization which has been taken to almost religious-like reverence by so many well-meaning people is also understandable a Communist organization. BLM founder Patrisse Cullors, explained that “we’re trained Marxists.”

These black leaders/intellectuals should not be blamed for the fact that they have inadvertently pushed America in the wrong socioeconomic direction and have helped keep Africa devastatingly poor. We want to understand the complex environmental factors that lead to the economic fallacies which then manifest themselves in the more obvious/trivial "identities" of socialists/communists/etc., and place the "blame" on such fallacies, instead of blaming the current "identities" of people which can easily change with the proper understanding of economics. 

I guess one of the many lessons we can learn from the history of Socialism/Communism, is further reassurance of  the fact that we are all slightly smarter apes, equally susceptible to tribalisitic economic ignorance that leads to coercive central planning and Socialism as opposed to freedom and comeptitive knowledge discovery. The supposedly very smart Jews fell for communism really hard, so did the pasty white Russians, so did the supposedly smarter Asians/Chinese, and sadly, even the Cubans too. 




"Technological progress frequently results in more unemployment rather than in an easing of the burden of work for all. The profit motive, in conjunction with competition among capitalists, is responsible for an instability in the accumulation and utilization of capital which leads to increasingly severe depressions. Unlimited competition leads to a huge waste of labor, and to that crippling of the social consciousness of individuals which I mentioned before.

 "Technological progress" allows us to lower costs so more wealth can be created while consuming less thus growing the economic pie. Technological progress has made it so that on average a single worker in the agricultural sector, thanks to increasingly automated tractors/machinery, can create vast quantities of food and competition between such farmers guarantees that they must innovate and copy each other's innovations and that they must sell their food cheaply/competitively so now the masses have more wealth to spend in other sectors helping them grow, like the IT sector and everything else we now have since we don't have 80% of people working on farms like we did just a few centuries ago. The wealth that no longer sustains a job that has been lost to automation simply goes to sustain some other job, allowing us to easily afford more stuff, the stuff that got automated, plus the new stuff we spend our money/wealth on. "accumulation and utilization of capital" thanks to finance/banking and interest rates pairs such wealth the the best ideas maximizing economic growth and the wages of all workers as the increasingly wealtier companies/investors/people/orders have to offer more wealth to workers as they compete for labor. "instability" and "severe depressions" are caused by government interferences in the market and the rpeviously discusses businesscycle brought about when banks create money to encourage business expansion when what businesses really need is previously saved and thus unconsumed wealth, not money obviously. 



This crippling of individuals I consider the worst evil of capitalism. Our whole educational system suffers from this evil. An exaggerated competitive attitude is inculcated into the student, who is trained to worship acquisitive success as a preparation for his future career.

I am convinced there is only one way to eliminate these grave evils, namely through the establishment of a socialist economy, accompanied by an educational system which would be oriented toward social goals. In such an economy, the means of production are owned by society itself and are utilized in a planned fashion. A planned economy, which adjusts production to the needs of the community, would distribute the work to be done among all those able to work and would guarantee a livelihood to every man, woman, and child.

in a free society resources are utilized in a planned fashion, in the hihgly efficient and competitive plans of millions of entrepreneurs who are constantly trying to out-do each other trying to serve the "needs of the community" and are in many ways subserviant to the desires of consumers. As Mises explains:

"The consumers, by their buying or abstention from buying, ultimately determine what should be produced and in what quantity and quality. They render profitable the affairs of those businessmen who best comply with their wishes and unprofitable the affairs of those who do not produce what they are asking for most urgently. Profits convey control of the factors of production into the hands of those who are employing them for the best possible satisfaction of the most urgent needs of the consumers, and losses withdraw them from the control of the inefficient businessmen. In a market economy not sabotaged by the government the owners of property are mandataries of the consumers as it were. On the market a daily repeated plebiscite determines who should own what and how much. It is the consumers who make some people rich and other people penniless."

To the economically ignorant, 

"Socialism is simply a re-assertion of that tribal ethics whose gradual weakening had made an approach to the Great Society possible"

"It is always from a minority acting in ways different from what the majority would prescribe that the majority in the end learns to do better."

"It would scarcely be an exaggeration to say that the greatest danger to liberty today comes from the men who are most needed and most powerful in modern government, namely, the efficient expert administrators exclusively concerned with what they regards as the public good."


"Inflation is probably the most important single factor in that
vicious circle wherein one kind of government action
makes more and more government control necessary. For this reason all those who wish to stop the drift toward increasing government control should concentrate their effort on monetary policy."


"However human,envy is certainly not one of the sources of discontent that a free society can eliminate. It is probably one of the essential conditions for the preservation of such a society that we do not countenance envy, not sanction its demands by camouflaging it as social justice, but treat it, in the words of John Stuart Mill, as "the most anti-social and evil of all passions."



to the bewildering growing complexity 

We are all slightly smarter and potentially very dangerous apes, we either become "civilized" smarter apes by overcoming our tribalism and understanding how freedom and tolerance leads to civilization, or we remain "uncivilized" and thus keep rolling the dice until we finally destroy ourselves. Fortunately, natural selection keeps selecting, perhaps there are other planets where their slightly smarter apes became "civilized" in time.  What a shame that we are about to destroy the world even thought Mises/Hayek and friends already explained it all. These men's ideas can no longer remain ahead of our times. As Mises predicted, either we succeed in spreading them to "the immense majority" or ["there is no hope left for mankind".]



The freedom to charge interest and resulting banking/finance industry is one of the main reasons why the European social order inadvertently managed to grow and innovate much faster than the Islamic one.For example, Islam has strong prohibitions against charging interest(usury) which have short-circuited or greatly hampered the market process’ evolution in the Islamic world. The following passages from the Qur’an are perhaps the most relevant:

>“That they took usury, though they were forbidden; and that they devoured men's substance wrongfully;- we have prepared for those among them who reject faith a grievous punishment.” 4:161

>“Those who devour usury will not stand except as stands one whom the Evil One by his touch has driven to madness. That is because they say: “Trade is like usury,” but Allah has permitted trade and forbidden usury...” 2:275

>“Allah will deprive usury of all blessing, but will give increase for deeds of charity: for He does not love ungrateful and wicked creatures.” 2:276

Christianity’s New Testament seems more usury-friendly via passages like, Luke 19:23  “Why, then, didst thou not put money in a bank, so that I on my return might have gotten it with interest?” , but Luke 6:35 “But love your enemies, do good to them, and lend to them without expecting to get anything back” could be used to support an anti-usury position which is what the Church enforced for over a thousand years before eventually abandoning the strong anti-usury stand.

When it comes to Judaism and the Old Testament, God’s message is one that shuns charging interest between Israelites/Jews but allows it to be charged to non-Israelites. The most influential verses are Deuteronomy 23:20 “You may charge a foreigner interest, but not a brother Israelite…” and Exodus 22:25 “If you lend money to one of my people among you who is needy, do not be like a moneylender; charge him no interest.” This is a good example of mankind’s tribal ethnocentrism shunning a practice which is believed to be bad within the group, but allowing its use with those outside the group. The fourteenth-century French Jew Levi ben Gershom felt it was good to burden the gentile with interest ‘because one should not benefit an idolator… and cause him as much damage as possible without deviating from righteousness.’ (Johnson, Paul. (1988). A History of the Jews. , p. 174)

The few religious scriptures we have just read have had profound ramifications. In a Christian world that would excommunicate usurers/moneylenders, Jews being immune to excommunication found an advantage as moneylenders, although an advantage that also came with risky court battles as Christian creditors would sometimes try to play the “charging interest is against God” card when it came to paying their debts. The prevalence of Jews as moneylenders even shows itself in the Magna Carta where there is a small section establishing some rules when dealing with [Jewish moneylenders.](https://www.bl.uk/magna-carta/articles/magna-carta-english-translation) Historian Paul Johnson writes:

>“The Jews reacted by engaging in the one business where Christian laws actually discriminated in their favour, and so became identified with the hated trade of moneylending. Rabbi Joseph Colon, who knew both France and Italy in the second half of the fifteenth century, wrote that the Jews of both countries hardly engaged in any other profession” (Johnson, Paul. (1988). A History of the Jews. , p. 174)

Johnson mentions other ways in which Jews helped push the world in a more capitalist direction. One was financial innovation via their influence in the development of stock markets. Another was their stress on the importance of advertising. Better advertising speeds up competition and its spread of superior ideas/products so it is a great boost to civilization/order. Johnson also mentions how “Jews were exceptionally adept at gathering and making use of commercial intelligence.” (Johnson, p. 286) For centuries Jews had evolved into a sort of extended family that covered much of the Western world, “they ran sensitive and speedy information systems which enabled them to respond rapidly to political and military events and to the changing demands of regional, national and world markets.” (Johnson, p. 286) The September 27th 1712 issue of England’s Spectator described the Jew’s influence as follows:

>"They are so disseminated through all the trading Parts of the World, that they are become the instruments by which the most distant Nations converse with one another and by which mankind are knit together in a general correspondence. They are like the pegs and nails in a great building, which though they are but little valued in themselves, are absolutely necessary to keep the whole frame together." (Sombart "The Jews and Modern Capitalism", p. 171)

It was bad enough that they rejected the divinity of Christianity and Islam and practiced usury; but Jews were also fierce competitors who would upset Christian businessmen by disrupting their anti-competitive customs, all for the great benefit of the consumer and European social order and culture of course. Historian/Economist Werner Sombart mentions how according to the values at the time “To take away your neighbour’s customers was contemptible, unchristian, and immoral” (Sombart, p. 129). For example, in 1745 Toulouse France, Christian traders complained that “everybody runs to the Jewish traders.” (Sombart, p. 126) In Poland, 1619, “difficulties and stumbling-blocks are put in the way of merchants and craftsmen by the competition of Jews” (Sombart, p. 126). In England, 17th century English merchant and one time governor of the East India Company Josiah Child mentioned, “The Jews are a subtil people… depriving the English merchant of that profit he would otherwise gain.”[108] In Prussia, 1750 “The merchants of our town…complain… that Jewish traders who sell the same goods do them a great harm, because they sell at a lower price.” (Sombart, p. 142) Mises writes:

>"The Nazis have an ally in every town or village where there is a man eager to get rid of a Jewish competitor. The secret weapon of Hitler is the anti-Jewish inclinations of many millions of shopkeepers and grocers, of doctors and lawyers, professors and writers." [(Mises, "Omnipotent Government")](https://oll.libertyfund.org/titles/mises-omnipotent-government-the-rise-of-the-total-state-and-total-war/simple)

Hitler, who like most popular leaders was simply the embodiment of the usual anti-Calitalist economic fallacies/myths/prejudices of the times, was of course a 'National Socialist', who had little understanding of the vital role that economic freedom plays in society and erroneously saw things like the emerging stock markets and finance industry, especially given the relative over-representation of Jews, as some gimmick/scam plotted by Jews to the detriment of non-Jews. His fallacies/ignorance can easily be seen in numerous excerpts like this one from a speech given in Munich on July 28th, 1922:

>"The vast process of the industrialization of the peoples meant the confluence of great masses of workmen in the towns...Parallel with this was a gradual 'moneyfication' of the whole of the nation's labor-strength. 'Share-capital' was in the ascendant, and thus bit by bit the Stock Exchange came to control the whole national economy. The directors of these institutions were, and are without exception, Jews. I say 'without exception,' for the few non-Jews who had a share in them are in the last resort nothing but screens, shop-window Christians, whom one needs in order, for the sake of the masses, to keep up the appearance that these institutions were after all founded as a natural outcome of the needs and the economic life of all peoples alike, and were not, as was the fact, institutions which correspond only with the essential characteristics of the Jewish people and are the outcome of those characteristics." [(Hitler)](http://comicism.tripod.com/220728.html)

So hitler does not see stock markets and modern finance as some "natural outcome of the needs and the economic life of all peoples alike" he erroneously sees it more as something tied to the biology or characteristics or Identity of Jews and to the detriment of non-jews.

Let us also briefly discuss some of the environmental/'evolutionary factors'/pressures which unfortunately attracted so many Jews to Socialism/Communism with disastrous repercussions. How prevalent were Jews in spreading/implementing Socialist/Communist ideology? First of all there was Karl Marx, Socialism/Communism's main intellectual who gave the movement enough of a naïve intellectual aura to mislead hundreds of future would-be dictators/intellectuals. Leon Trotsky(born Lev Davidovich Bronstein), founder of the Red Army, second only to Lenin and most likely to succeed him as leader of the Russian communists was also an ethnic Jew. Slezkine writes:

>"At the First All-Russian Congress of Soviets in June 1917, at least 31 percent of Bolshevik delegates(and 37 percent of Unified Social Democrats) were Jews. At the Bolshevik Central Committee meeting of October 23, 1917, which voted to launch an armed insurrection, 5 out of the 12 members present were Jews. Three out of seven Politbureau members charged with leading the October uprising were Jews(Trotsky, Zinoviev, and Grigory Sokolnikov)." (Slezkine,"The Jewish Century" p. 175)

According to Lenin, it was thanks to Jews that his Bolsheviks were able to "take over the state apparatus" in Russia. Lenin mentions:

>"The fact that there were many Jewish intelligentsia members in the Russian cities was of great importance to the revolution. They put an end to the general sabotage that we were confronted with after the October Revolution… The Jewish elements were mobilized… and thus saved the revolution at a difficult time. It was only thanks to this pool of a rational and literate labor force that we succeeded in taking over the state apparatus" (Slezkine, "The Jewish Century" p. 224)


For a people who were sometimes seen as foreigners, Socialism's international brotherhood ("Workers of the world, unite!" was to be a popular rallying cry) would seem to have an additional appeal and be a perfect fit for a people who were already a sort of international family. Socialism's atheism would also do away with a major source of Jewish troubles now that everyone was supposed to be atheist/irreligious in the new scientific and rational Socialist world. The central and viral economic fallacy of Socialism, that having smart people/"experts" plan the social order would be better than letting selfish and greedy businessmen do so, needed the smarter and better educated to be the planners, and this is exactly what Jews were compared to the rest (at least in Russia), thus naturally rising to the top of the movement. Historian William Johnston writes that "Jews had enjoyed many centuries of literacy before the rest of Europe started to become literate in the eighteenth [century."](https://books.google.com/books?id=it9c6z4bw_8C&pg=PA38&lpg=PA38&dq=%22Jews+had+enjoyed+many+centuries+of+literacy+before+the+rest+of+Europe+started+to+become+literate+in+the+eighteenth+century%22&source=bl&ots=w6zPc5ISGe&sig=ACfU3U32b6Ni1Nyd9C-paQSGo84xFZeHpQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiN77GIj__mAhU5HjQIHWZkDNIQ6AEwAHoECAYQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22Jews%20had%20enjoyed%20many%20centuries%20of%20literacy%20before%20the%20rest%20of%20Europe%20started%20to%20become%20literate%20in%20the%20eighteenth%20century%22&f=false) Slezkine gives more detail:

>"The Jews were, consistently and by a substantial margin, the most literate group in the Soviet Union(85 percent, as compared to 58 percent for Russians, in 1926; and 94.3 percent, as compared to 83.4 percent for Russians, in 1939)…By 1939, 26.5 percent of all Jews had had a high school education(as compared to 7.8 percent of the population for the Soviet Union as a whole and 8.1 percent of Russians in the Russian Federation). In Leningrad, the proportion of high school graduates among Jews was 40.2 percent(as compared to 28.6 percent for the city as a whole). The number of Jewish students in the two upper grades of Soviet high schools was more than 3.5 times their share in the general population." [(Slezkine, "The Jewish Century" p. 222)](https://books.google.com/books?id=qzN6DwAAQBAJ&pg=PA222&lpg=PA222&dq=%22The+Jews+were,+consistently+and+by+a+substantial+margin,+the+most+literate+group+in+the+Soviet+Union%22&source=bl&ots=AFyu8t5M2s&sig=ACfU3U3yeYE4FlVqlF_gUCu1zrGwGLDiow&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjYu7Gyj__mAhVYHzQIHcDfD-kQ6AEwAHoECAEQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22The%20Jews%20were%2C%20consistently%20and%20by%20a%20substantial%20margin%2C%20the%20most%20literate%20group%20in%20the%20Soviet%20Union%22&f=false)

Chaim Weizmann recalls in his autobiography the simple fact that: "the non-Jewish population had not the same overwhelming thirst for knowledge as the Jews, who were always knocking at the doors of the [schools."](https://books.google.com/books?id=fl2mDwAAQBAJ&pg=PT37&lpg=PT37&dq=%22the+non-Jewish+population+had+not+the+same+overwhelming+thirst+for+knowledge+as+the+Jews,+who+were+always+knocking+at+the+doors+of+the+schools%22&source=bl&ots=a-o-w_-ls7&sig=ACfU3U1DZJvYeKpFP8ephZe8RFXCfH9uZA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwi6v5LCj__mAhXzGDQIHeb_CHcQ6AEwAHoECAMQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22the%20non-Jewish%20population%20had%20not%20the%20same%20overwhelming%20thirst%20for%20knowledge%20as%20the%20Jews%2C%20who%20were%20always%20knocking%20at%20the%20doors%20of%20the%20schools%22&f=false)

This large participation/association of ethnic Jews with Socialism would have disastrous consequences for the majority of Jews who did not want to be a part of Socialism or much less abandon their faith and traditions. As Lenin and Trotsky were launching post-WWI Russia into a civil war(1918–22) between the Communist Red Army and the White Russian Army which supported the Russian Monarchy and old order/institutions, Jews would pay a heavy price. Johnson writes that:

>"The consequences for the Jews both immediate and long-term, both locally and world-wide, were appalling. The White Russian armies, seeking to destroy the Soviet regime, treated all Jews as enemies. In the Ukraine, the Civil War developed into the most extensive pogrom in Jewish history. There were more than 1,000 separate incidents involving the killing of Jews. Over 700 communities in the Ukraine were involved and several hundred more in Russia. Between 60,000 and 70,000 Jews were murdered. In other parts of eastern Europe, a similar identification of Jews with Bolshevism led directly to murderous attacks on harmless Jewish communities. They were particularly bloody in Poland after the failure of the Bolshevik invasion and in Hungary after the fall of the Bela Kun regime. They occurred intermittently in Rumania throughout the 1920s. In all three countries the local Communist Parties had been largely created and run by Non-Jewish Jews, and in each case it was the unpolitical, traditional, observant Jews of the ghettos and villages who paid the penalty." (Johnson, "A History of the Jews", p. 452)

Again, it needs to be stressed, as Johnson just mentioned: "In all three countries the local Communist Parties had been largely created and run by Non-Jewish Jews". Thus it is quite understandable how so many like Hitler, Churchill and many Europeans came to associate/equate Jews with it. 

We are now in a position to fully appreciate the Jewish founder of politicsl Zionism Theodore Herzl's wisdom when he summarizes: 

>"We are what the Ghetto made us. We have attained pre-eminence in finance, because mediaeval conditions drove us to it. The same process is now being repeated. We are again being forced into finance, now it is the stock exchange, by being kept out of other branches of economic activity. Being on the stock exchange, we are consequently exposed afresh to contempt. At the same time we continue to produce an abundance of mediocre intellects who find no outlet, and this endangers our social position as much as does our increasing wealth. Educated Jews without means are now rapidly becoming Socialists. Hence we are certain to suffer very severely in the struggle between classes, because we stand in the most exposed position in the camps of both Socialists and [capitalists."](https://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/quot-the-jewish-state-quot-theodor-herzl) 

We must emphasize that Socialist/Communist ideology, rooted on easy to absorb economic fallacies, was already occurring in the Western world and can be seen as an almost inevitable mistake as mankind tried to make sense of the workings of the social order/economy which was quickly growing in bewildering complexity. Jews were inadvertently in a position to be more attracted to Socialism and Capitalism and be leaders in both. They obviously did not "invent" or "plot" Socialism/Communism/Capitalism like Hitler and many others to this day claim. It could be said that they were 'naturally selected' to be Socialist/Capitalist/finance leaders, thus giving the impression that they were its "creators/plotters". Jewish involvement in such movements was "indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design." If "the Jews" were smart enough to "plot" the numerous things the non-Jewish world accuses them of, they would have been smart enough to realize that Socialism/Communism was a disaster for Jew and non-Jew alike and have been telling everyone about fellow Jew Ludwig von Mises. Both mankind's utter ignorance of the workings of the socioeconomic order and its evolution, as well as antisemitism and the Jew/Gentile conflicts can be seen as outgrowths of the same sort of economic ignorance. **AND MUST BE DEALT WITH ACCORDINGLY!!!!** 

The cycle of economic ignorance -> antisemitism > antisemite (first European/Hitler, now due to Zionism Iran/Middle East) vs. Jews and sympathetic supporters -> World War (II and coming III) must be broken!



Given the deteriorating racial and economic situation, the public is looking for answers, unfortunately they understandably are drawn to the same fallacies.  For example, books like Angela DiAngelo's White Fragility are spreading the usual simplistic "identity"-based and anti-capitalist and thus anti-freedom and pro-coercion fallacies. For example, she writes:

"the US economy was based on the abduction and enslavement of African people, the displacement and genocide of indigenous people, and the annexation of Mexican lands"

Wrong. Those things certainly occurred, but they were NOT the "base" or most important factors leading to the rising standard of living Americans, and the entire planet, would enjoy as US-made discoveries and innovations spread globaly. The US economy was "based" on Capitalism(albeit a very imperfect one of curse), on a relatively strong respect for private property and the emergent competitive knowledge discovery and superior social order it leads to, as well as the "identity" of the fellow slightly smarter apes that best reflects the TRUTH, that all human beings are equal slightly smarter apes regardless of the cultural/tribalistic baggage we have inherited from by-gone centuries.

DiAngelo, like most mainstream "intellectuals" who call themselves "social scientists" but have 0 clue regarding how the actual socioeconomic order works and much less evolved, inevitably falls for, what else, simplistic and coercive monopolistic socialist central planning and the need to "re-educate" and "shame" and "coerce" white people into absorbing some psychobabble. She writes:

"White identity is inherently racist. White people do not exist outside the system of white supremacy. This does not mean that we should stop identifying as white and start claiming only to be Italian or Irish. To do so is to deny the reality of racism in here and now, and this denial would simply be colorblind racism. Rather I strive to be less white, to be less white is to be less racially oppressive"

Rest assured that such nonsense will be, if not already, taught in public schools, thus people will be deemed criminals for refusing to pay taxes that fund such "re-education"


Her book and views reminded me of perhaps today's most famous biologist and evolutionary thinker, Richard Dawkins, and the very first paragraph of his seminal book "The Selfish Gene" which reads as follows:

Intelligent life on a planet comes of age when it first works out the reason for its own existence. If superior creatures from space ever visit earth, the first question they will ask, hi order to assess the level of our civilization, is: 'Have they discovered evolution yet?' Living organisms had existed on earth, without ever knowing why, for over three thousand million years before the truth finally dawned on one of them. His name was Charles Darwin. To be fair, others had had inklings of the truth, but it was Darwin

 who first put together a coherent and tenable account of why we exist. Darwin made it possible for us to give a sensible answer to the curious child whose question heads this chapter. We no longer have to resort to superstition when faced with the deep problems: Is there a meaning to life? 
 
 
 What are we for? What is man? After posing the last of these questions, the eminent zoologist G. G. Simpson put it thus: 'The point I want to make now is that all attempts to answer that question before 1859 are worthless and that we will be better off if we ignore them completely.'

Point? A "social scientist" who has 0 understanding of how the socioeconomic order works and has co-evolved with our culture and "identities", in other words, someone who has no familiarity with the great economists and social thinkers of the so-called "Austrian School" like Ludwig von Mises and his numerous intellectual heirs like his great protégé 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics F.A. Hayek, Thomas Sowell, and more... Again, as G.G. Simpson put it "...are worthless and that we will be better off if we ignore them completely.'



Let's look at a few more. 
Paul Samuelson, the first American to receive the Nobel Prize in economics and whose textbook “Economics” has been the most widely used in our universities for over 4 decades  as late as 1989, in the book’s 13th edition, as the Soviet Union’s tyrannical communist economic empire was crumbling he wrote “The Soviet economy is proof that, contrary to what many skeptics had earlier believed, a socialist command economy can function and even thrive.”[14] 



Economist Ludwig von Mises wrote: "As conditions are today, nothing can be more important to every intelligent man than economics..This is, in our age, the primary civic duty..Economics deals with society's fundamental problems; it concerns everyone and belongs to all. It is the main and proper study of every citizen." Our freedom to choose transforms billions of free people into a global super-computer where all companies are motivated to innovate and learn from each other thus inadvertently cooperate to discover and spread the best information with which to serve customers and reorder all of mankind. It is hard-working, courteous people who treat everyone with respect regardless of age/sex/religion/race who thanks to competition, inadvertently motivate everyone else to be likewise thus spreading superior morals/information. Freedom, not coercive competition-immune government monopoly by 'experts', is what made America the greatest country on earth.Freedom is "The Ultimate Algor


2001 Nobel Laureate in economics Joseph Stiglitz:

"... markets are not necessarily efficient and stable on their own. Many economists had believed that before, I think now there is a consensus on that”

"fiscal policy works… when the economy is weak government spending can actually stimulate the economy."

And then of course, Stiglitz points to the utterly useless  "mathematical models" that play such a big role in mainstream economics mythology. While discussing the 2008 downturn her mentions:

"“Most striking is the lesson that… the models that were used before the crisis neither predicted the crisis nor gave us a framework for responding to the crisis when it happened, and so in a sense for an economist this is a very exciting time because it means there is a lot of work to be done”

Of course, sacrificing 100 virgins didn't appease the gods, perhaps we must sacrifice 1000.


Consider the following 40 seconds from a speech by former British Prime minister margaret thatcher. When Thatcher refers to "money" she is really referring to "wealth" , she and her audience properly understand that the government does not have any wealth of its own and all the wealth it aquires comes from the private sector. Stephanie Kelton, the leading proponent of the latest econommic mythology known as Modern Monetary Theory, properly summarizes Thatchers statement in her book ,The Deficit Myth, when she writes :

"If the British people wanted more from their government, they would have to foot the bill."

Great job Stephanie! But then she writes :

"Was it an innocent mistake or a carefully crafted statement designed to discourage the British people from demanding more from their government? I'm not sure. Regardless of her motives, Thatcher's remarks concealed the currency-issuing power of the state." 

Kelton's seeming ignorance of the fact that everything that the government does comes at the expense of wealth which must come from the private sector has her foolishly implying some potential malice or trickery by Thatcher. Kelton feels like the "currency-issuing power of the state" is some great power that allows the government to always balance the books and thus finance anything it pleases as long as it does not create money too rapidly causing prices to rise too fast. Kelton is correct, once we abandoned the gold standard, the government no longer needs to directly coerce taxpayers (the private sector) to acquire the necessary money which it can later trade for the real wealth it needs to carry out whatever the heroic central planners want to achieve regardless of the wishes of taxpayers who have their wealth taken away, not by direct taxation, but by the fact that their future earnings and savings will buy them less due to the relative increase in prices the money creation and wealth acquisition by the government brings about. Since the government can now just create money with which to essentially centrally plan anything it wants, it can "guarantee everyone a job" with a living wage as Kelton proposes. But what Kelton does not understand and is nowhere to be found in any of her writings, is the vital fact that what truly matters is whether the central-bank-financed jobs and other harebrained ideas the inspired slightly smarter apes want to accomplish, will be ordered in a manner that produces more real wealth than it consumes, and this will be a resounding NO, because the information needed to accomplish this task can only be discovered by truly free individuals in the private sector using a money whose vital function is not subject to the distortions that clueless economists and bureaucrats bring about via their money-creation thus inflation. Kelton foolishly believes that her Central Planning via Central Banking is some kind of great breakthrough on par with Copernicus showing that the Earth was not the center of the universe and instead went around the sun. 

Keynes, Krugman, Stiglitz and countless others are what Henry Hazlitt referred to as the usual crop of “men regarded today as brilliant economists, who deprecate saving and recommend squandering on a national scale as a way of economic salvation” and whose “ ideas which now pass for brilliant innovations and advances are in fact mere revivals of ancient errors, and a further proof of the dictum that those who are ignorant of the past are condemned to repeat it.”
