# Intro

My name is Jorge Besada and I am running for Congress in Washington State' 9th District

I am computer guy, a contractor at Microsoft.

I was born in Cuba, a once prosperous country destroyed by economic fallacies which led many to adopt Socialism and thus inevitably bring oppression and poverty upon themselves. To a significant degree I was raised by my grandmother, a botanist who was a firm believer in Socialism. She was a great woman in countless ways, but she was wrong about Socialism and how the socioeconomic order works. The great free-market economics Ludwig von Mises felt it was 'the primary civic duty' to spread an understanding of economics, of the so-called free-market, of real Capitalism. I see things likewise, I too see it as my moral duty to help others overcome the economic fallacies that continually take us towards tribalistic wars and economic disasters. So I would like to begin this introductory campaign video by quoting the great Mises which will nicely capture the essense of my campaing. 


"Economics must not be relegated to classrooms and statistical offices and must not be left to esoteric circles. It is the philosophy of human life and action and concerns everybody and everything. It is the pith of civilization and of man's human existence…All present-day political issues concern problems commonly called economic. All arguments advanced in contemporary discussion of social and public affairs deal with fundamental matters of…economics. Everybody's mind is preoccupied with economic doctrines…Everybody thinks of economics whether he is aware of it or not. In joining a political party and in casting his ballot, the citizen implicitly takes a stand upon essential economic theories…As conditions are today, nothing can be more important to every intelligent man than economics. His own fate and that of his progeny is at stake…all reasonable men are called upon to familiarize themselves with the teachings of economics. This is, in our age, the primary civic duty....Economics deals with society's fundamental problems; it concerns everyone and belongs to all. It is the main and proper study of every citizen."


"The fact that the majority of our contemporaries, the masses of semi-barbarians led by self-styled intellectuals, entirely ignore everything that economics has brought forward, is the main political problem of our age. There is no use in deceiving ourselves. American public opinion rejects the market economy, the capitalistic free-enterprise system that provided the nation with the highest standard of living ever attained...

If we want to avoid the destruction of Western civilization and the relapse into primitive wretchedness, we must change the mentality of our fellow citizens. We must make them realize what they owe to the much vilified "economic freedom," the system of free enterprise and capitalism....

The issues of society's economic organization are every citizen's business. To master them to the best of one's ability is the duty of everyone."

## Market process Begin


living things and society are self-perpetuating orders that are in continuous cycles of wealth production and consumption. Production involves the transformation or relocation of matter to create wealth, and consumption transforms/relocates wealth in a way that sustains or expands living things and their internal parts/orders. The Sun sends us photons/energy which the process of photosynthesis is able to store in chemical form. This energy is then used to power the cycles of production/consumption. If there is more production than consumption then the order is profitable and thus has additional wealth with which to sustain itself for longer periods and/or grow. For example, paramecium are single-celled life-forms that produce food/wealth by swimming around and swallowing small bacteria which they then consume by digesting and transforming them into the various nutrients/wealth needed to maintain and expand the paramecium's internal order and thus life. A more complex multi-cellular animal like a person, is simply a collection of cells (which are themselves orders) which must be productive as a whole in order to produce and then consume the necessary wealth needed to nourish itself and the sub-orders/organs/cells/organelles it is composed of. Today we not only have biological order, we have social order, Herbert Spencer's "Social Organism", which is rapidly growing and increasing its 'rate of production', in other words, the rate at which it transforms the earth's matter into human usable wealth/order/life/biomass. Every year, increasingly automated building-sized machinery in the mining industries scrape/mine less than 10 cubic miles of matter from the earth's massive volume of 260 billion cubic miles. This matter is 'collaboratively transformed' or relocated by billions of people as trillions of dollars worth of wealth in terms of cars/computers/buildings/products/etc. are produced thus increasing the word's economic pie of wealth and social order. These continuous cycles of production and consumption require precise knowledge/information. By focusing on how information arises, spreads, and guides these cycles of production and consumption which lead to order/life/society we can have a simple yet profound understanding of how the entire world works.

Just like the human body is the result of the actions of over 30 trillion cells which are coordinated by various "systems"
like the respiratory, nervous, and digestive "systems", the global socioeconomic order is also coordinated by a "system", by what economists of the so-called 'Austrian School', like Ludwig von Mises and his great protégé 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics F.A. Hayek, referred to as "The Market Process". 'The Market Process' and the "parts" it is composed of like money, prices, economic competition, and interest rates is the process that coordinates the actions of nearly 8 billion human beings in a manner that they produce more wealth than they consume so they get to live.

in this introductory  video I'd like to very quickly go over a few vital economic concepts which every citizen should and can easily understand and later apply them to our current problems.
Money and Inflation
Economic Competition
Prices and the Impossibility of Socialism
The Errors that led to the Creation of the Communist Soviet Union and 

Your life, the wealth you consume, the entire global economy and thus all of human civilization is the inadvertent result of a simple concept or better said, tradition. The concept of private property. Private property means that a person owns and has the freedom to use his property as he desires/calculates. Our freedom to trade our private property with anyone in the entire planet transforms billions of free people into a global super-computer where all companies are motivated to innovate and learn from each other thus inadvertently cooperate to discover superior information with which to serve customers and reorder all of mankind. For example, it is the freedom of customers to buy electric vehicles with the latest technologies from any company in the world, that motivates all other auto-manufacturers in the world to copy and thus spread the latest and greatest innovations throughout the world.
Companies that don’t successfully compete (innovate/learn) won’t get enough revenue to pay a competitive wage, motivating employees to once again use their freedom to trade, this time their labor, quit and join the increasingly better-informed higher-paying companies. This both, competitive and cooperative, process continuously innovates and reorders labor/resources in the most productive and prosperous way. Just like in the Olympics we can discover the best athletes in the world due to global competition, so does free-trade among all nations/peoples/orders allows the best ideas to compete and spread globally thus ensuring the best possible global order. As cost-cutting ideas emerge and inevitably spread via competition leading prices to continuously fall, new profitable ideas easily arise and once again spread via competition in an endless cycle of knowledge generation/innovation. For example, computers were once very expensive, but once the price of making them came down enough, people easily realized that every home could have them, which gave birth to our computerized world and the Internet and all the great things that flow from it. The more wealth is produced, the more wealth has to be offered in exchange for labor as entrepreneurs/companies/orders compete against each other for the labor they need which helps explain why the economic pie grows for everyone. We should also quickly add that morals are simply ways of acting, they are knowledge, which like most knowledge, emerges and spreads via economic competition. Companies that hire/nourish/‘trade with’ lazy, disrespectful, or corrupt people will be less competitive and be inevitably pressured to hire people with better morals which in turn forces everyone to be respectful and hardworking regardless of race, sex, etc. Similarly, it is hard-working, tolerant, courteous people who thanks to competition inevitably force everyone else to be likewise. As Hayek tells us:

“Competition is, after all, always a process in which a small number makes it necessary for larger numbers to do what they do not like, be it to work harder, to change habits, or to devote a degree of attention, continuous application, or regularity to their work which without competition would not be needed.” (Hayek)

As millions of Italians, Britons, Germans and other immigrants from all over the world came to America, it was ultimately the competition which grows from ‘private property’ and thus individual liberty/freedom which stripped these people of their otherwise nationalistic/ethnocentric/tribalistic identities and evolved what came to be seen as the classic American character/ethos of wanting to be seen as a reputable/honest businessman/professional who treats everyone with respect and wears a business suit as opposed to older religious/ethnocentric dress. So not only does ‘private property’ “turn on” or leads to economic competition and other aspects of the market process and resulting social order/civilization, it also civilizes our morals.

Governmental/’public sector’ orders, being COERCIVE MONOPOLIES which get their life/order-sustaining wealth through taxes/compulsion are immune to the competitive-information-spreading incentives/pressures which motivate private sector companies/individuals to be efficient/innovative/hard-working. This helps one understand how Communism, which abolishes competing private companies and replaces them with a single competition-less monopolistic bureaucracy run by "experts", leads to a massive lack of production/innovation and eventually socioeconomic chaos/starvation as the economic pie continuously shrinks as has happened in every country that consciously attempts Communism/Socialism or inadvertently drifts in that direction as their inefficient governments and public sectors get bigger and bigger (USA/Word).  Central plans can’t work if people are free to not go along with them — so they inevitably require compulsion/tyranny. For example, it is a criminal act in Communist countries like my native Cuba to start a business, in other words, to attempt a superior restructuring of society because it interferes with the plans of "the experts" who run the government. It is also a criminal act everywhere to not pay taxes that sustain public sector bureaucracies like “public education” so there is little incentive or wealth to sustain other, more desirable/superior competitors/alternatives. For example, the NYC public(monopolistic) school bureaucracy consumes about $29,000 per year to “educate” a K-12 student. Refusing to pay a single dollar that goes to this coercive bureaucracy is a criminal act. 

Taxes and all transfers of wealth from the private sector to the government, besides being an obvious burden to the human beings that had to sacrifice a part of their lives to earn such wealth and now have less wealth to trade for the things they want, simply destroy the private sector jobs the taxed-away spending would have sustained in the private sector and replaces such productive/efficient and pie-increasing jobs for inefficient government ones or worse like militarism/wars.

The former Soviet Union had plenty of highly educated scientists/'experts' whose plans required the coercion of millions, but they were thoroughly crushed by free Americans and their competitive knowledge discovery as they worked hard towards the American Dream. Socialist regimes and public sectors in general also face an "incentive problem." In free societies, or the private sector, each person/company is incentivized to be as productive as possible and keep inefficiencies to a minimum since he owns/keeps the additional wealth or losses. On the other hand, the government employee or bureaucrat gets the same pay (ability to then consume) whether his department did a good job (produced a lot) or not, and is also not risking his own wealth since that comes from the taxpayers. The image below is one of our most powerful memes for explaining the difference between competitive/private orders(South Korea) and monopolistic/government orders (North Korea). Again, keep your eye on how information arises/spreads and continuously restructures the social order.  

Regulations are just information not subject to continuous improvement via competition so they paralyze entire industries driving up costs. Compare the increasingly regulated/paralyzed healthcare sector which has grown from consuming about 5% of the economic pie in 1960 to nearly 20% today, to the free/competitive IT sector where even the poorest of Americans can afford amazing technology.
In the regulated/paralyzed healthcare sector what a person must learn in order to legally offer medical advice via licensing of doctors, where he must learn it via licensing of medical schools, what chemical compounds can be legally consumed, how to test drugs, how the medical insurance industry should work, and countless other gigantic bodies of knowledge/information are dictated by monopolistic competition-less bureaucracies like the American Medical Association (AMA), the Food And Drug Administration (FDA) and numerous others. By comparison, the Information Technology sector has very few government regulations so competition motivates the creation and spread of superior information at breakneck speed and is obviously transforming our world right before our eyes. Teenagers can work at Google/Microsoft/Amazon and write the software that keeps planes in the sky or people alive via software in medical equipment, yet there is no American Association of Computer Programmers dictating what or where such knowledge can be obtained similar to how the government via the AMA regulates/monopolizes/paralyzes the medical sector via the licensing of doctors, medical schools, insurance sector, etc. There is no government monopolistic bureaucracy ensuring the proper functioning of the software that runs PCs, smart-phones, the Internet, or ensuring the lack of malware or viruses in software. Freedom and competition in the Software Development industry is even quickly evolving culture. It is increasingly seen as uncool and backward to have a traditional degree, where one wastes thousands of dollars and time physically attending gigantic temple-like universities, inefficiently ("professors" instead of popular online videos you can pause/rewind) "learning" things that have nothing (English 101, etc.) to do with being a productive software/web/IT professional. Thanks to this lack of monopolistic centralized decision making/regulating/paralyzing, education in the Software Development/IT world is astounding. At places like www.freecodecamp.org thousands of people are going from 0 experience to highly-paid computer programmers in just a few months for free. IT companies who reach a large enough size ultimately due to the great services they provide, and therefore the useful/profitable knowledge they contain, like Microsoft, Google, Amazon, and many others, go about creating their own competing educational institutions which train and test people using their products and technologies which are solving real problems and have been shaped by years of fierce competition/innovation. There are over 2.1 million individuals worldwide who have become Microsoft Certified Professionals(MCPs) by studying for and passing exams created by Microsoft. These exams change frequently to reflect the never-ending cycle of knowledge generation that exists in this freer and less regulated sector of the economy. Economic ignorance leads many to believe that since one has to be seemingly more careful with medicine, such monopolistic regulatory oversight is somehow necessary. This is irrelevant, if it is superior information that is needed, which includes figuring out how careful to be, freedom and competition is the best way to discover it, period. My guess is that if the healthcare sector, or better yet, the entire world-wide economy was as deregulated/free/competitive as the Software/IT sector, in a few months the cost of healthcare would drop by at least 80%, the rate of innovation and prosperity would skyrocket and I would guess that people who as of today have 10 years left to live might be able to beat dying of old age.  Only the truly economically woke can easily accept the feasibility of this statement. But human flight is impossible obviously. 

In this image we can easily see how the less regulated a sector is the smoother competitive knowledge discovery functions and thus the quicker cost-cutting ideas and innovations spread leading to continuously lower prices and better products in things like electronics and software, but higher prices in the more regulated/paralyzed sectors like healthcare and hospitals.

Thus we can see that Freedom is "The Ultimate Algorithm", it discovers the information that orders civilization, it civilizes our morals, is also indispensable for discovering the TRUTH and is the very opposite of coercion and tyranny.

On to a few important concepts relating to wealth and money.

Whenever a person works he produces his labor and whatever wealth it creates thus increasing the economic pie. If you are a freelancer you produce a product/service/wealth and trade it directly with society (customers) for money, and then trade the money back with society for the wealth you consume. If you work for a company, you produce your labor and trade it for money with your “employer” who combines it with the labor of others to produce a product/service/wealth which is then traded with society for the money from which your paycheck comes. Whether you are a freelancer, employee, or company, what is commonly referred to as sales revenue (your paycheck), is an estimate of the total amount of wealth produced. Costs, like employee wages which will be used by them to consume wealth(food,energy,etc.), are an estimate of how much wealth is consumed from the economic pie. And profits, which are the difference between sales revenue (production) and costs (consumption) are an estimate of by how much additional wealth the economic pie has grown. Again, a profitable order is an order (cell/person/company) that produces more than it consumes and is therefore self-sustaining/alive. The global economy or ‘Social Organism’ is really a vast collection of orders/people/companies that are constantly trading with each other, nourishing each other, each trade taking each participant/order from an inferior to a superior state of well-being from its own perspective, otherwise the trade would not occur. When Carl trades a dollar for a hamburger he values the hamburger more than the dollar and the restaurant values the dollar more than the hamburger so the action of trading takes place, which like all action which is not coerced, takes each participant from an inferior to superior state of wellbeing. 

The more a person produces, the more he can consume. The wealthier a person/company/order is, the more this entity has previously produced and exchanged for all this money/wealth. Bill Gates is one of the world’s richest men because the social order he helped shape and successfully managed, Microsoft, has been one of the most productive in the world. We know this is the case because billions of human beings traded their money/wealth for its products/services.

Now, very important!

0. The production of wealth requires the consumption of wealth. For example, if 10,000 men are to spend 2 years producing an airplane factory, they must consume/use the concrete/materials/food/energy/transportation/shelter/wealth that they (as well as their dependents/family) need while they produce the factory. In other words, there can be no production if there does not already exist enough wealth that can be consumed while production takes place.

1. More money does not equal more wealth. Imagine if everyone in the world suddenly had an extra billion dollars. Would this make society wealthier? No. The amount of REAL wealth(goods/services) has not increased by a single toothpick. It would actually lead to less wealth since many people wound stop working/producing seeing their new-found fortune. Would the 10,000 men above be able to produce the factory if instead of having real wealth to use/consume had to consume pieces of paper with dead presidents on them? Of course not.

2. More money just leads to higher prices.  If 10 people in an island each have ten dollars so there is a total of $100, can anything sell for $200? Of course not, because even if they all combine their money there would still not be enough for the transaction to take place. What if each person has 1 million so there are now 10 million in total. Can something now sell for $200 or $1 million? Of course. So for prices to go up there has to be more money. And who creates the money that allows this, the governments via their central banks like the Fed in the USA.


Next I will say some things that critisize our mainstream economics establishment. Although you see me in front of a Federal Reserve building in a rather protest-like pose, I do not believe that the Fed and our mainstream economics establishment is some cartoonish cabal of bad guys, not at all, what I do think is that they are very wrong, similar to how Karl Marx and the communists were wrong.

, but I must make it clear that . I believe that such errors arise out of political expediency and economic ignorance and other complex factors. 


 Creating more money just means that there is more money per existing unit of real wealth, which just means higher prices.

3. The creation of money by governments is just a hidden tax that transfers wealth from savers and society at large to the people who get the newly created money. For example, Let's say you have saved $1,000 which can buy you 1,000 items at $1/each. The government via Fed and a convoluted process eventually creates billions of dollars which are given to the newly-created Space Force military personnel so they can trade them for the wealth they need to consume/live and because of this money-creation prices go up 5% so each item is now $1.05 and your saved(or future earned) $1,000 can only buy you about 952 instead of 1,000 items. The 48 items/wealth (5%) that you (and other taxpayers) can no longer obtain, is the exact amount of wealth that the Space Force personnel got to consume. Again, money is not the same thing as wealth, when governments create money they are simply creating an additional tax or transfer of wealth from savers and the public at large to those who get the money. 

The following graph helps us understand how when the US was still on a gold standard, since gold can't be increased by adding 0s at the end of bars, this prevented the government from acquiring additional wealth/taxes by just creating the money thus prices had a slight downward trend until 1971 when the USA completely abandoned the gold standard. To make a slightly longer story shorter, the US government went off the gold standard so that it could get additional wealth from the people who create it obviously, private sector workers and seniors who had saved, to increasingly transfer wealth to growing quantities of welfare recipients as well as military personnel for the Vietnam war. Had the government tried to obtain this wealth, not sneakily via money-creation/inflation, but by more honestly raising taxes directly, chances are Americans would not have gone along. But from 1971 onward the US government thanks to Fed has been able to additionally tax workers/savers causing prices to rapidly increase instead of going down. If you look very carefully at the graph, you will notice two rapid increases in prices, one occurring during the American Civil War (1861-65) and another during the First World War(1914-1918). During wars, tribalistic politcians always resort to the price-increasing  money-creation to acquire the wealth needed to feed/clothe/nourish the war effort, because if they had to get the wealth via direct taxation, the public would more easily factor the true costs of the tribalistic warmongering and likely bring an end to such slaughters.

4. This next graph shows how from early march to mid may 2020, the Federal reserve has created about 3 trillion dollars which will be given to people and businesses so that they can exchange this money for wealth they can consume, 

some of this will be unemployment benefits which will motivate many to not even look for work and thus continue to be pure consumers

 although some businesses will consume this wealth as they produce some wealth, the 41+ million unemployed will be pure consumers, thus overall the 3+ trillion is leading to a rapid shrinking of the economy and accelerating rise in prices.
 
 
  Again, this is just a transfer of wealth from workers/seniors/some to others as the economy continues to shrink and prices rise. If the Federal Reserve continues to create money at this rate or faster, this will eventually lead to a hyperinflationary chaos as happened in Germany after WWI when the German government kept rapidly creating money (not wealth obviously) to pay for war reparations, military pensions, and the countless things the socialist-minded economically ignorant population always expects governments to accomplish. 


Next, a few words about "prices"

How much wealth had to be consumed in order to produce a gallon of gasoline that sells in Seattle for $3.50? Or a pound of beef that sells in a store in Miami for $5.35? We can’t know for sure, however, we can be fairly certain that it was less than the advertised price which on average must include the costs. The price of any item in the world lets us know that there is an order at that particular place and time that is coordinated by information that can produce the item while consuming less than the advertised price. THAT IS AMAZING! This allow goods to be purchased and combined in a manner that ensures that the combination (like a car) can easily have a price set that properly accounts for the costs/consumption of the whole (car) by just adding the prices of the parts used to produce it (wheels, glass, robotics, labor, etc.), parts which themselves had a price set that included their costs/consumption and so on, each part/input managed/ordered by entrepreneurs with highly specialized time-and-place specific information who are always using profit/loss calculation to ensure they are increasing the economic pie. The concept of ‘private property’ plays a vital role here as well, it is not until things are privately owned, that they are coordinated by brains/CPUs that are incentivized to use or reorder them in the most productive/profitable way possible.



In order to have life, the social order must be coordinated by information that leads to more production than consumption. This information and coordination is IMPOSSIBLE to achieve by governments/’Central Planners’ regardless of the genius of their “experts” or their good intentions. The following simple example suffices to show this. A restaurant in Miami sells a burger for $8. The $8 price provides vital information. Perhaps $1, might be profit, and $7 will be spent in costs, in other words, in the necessary consumption or use of wealth needed to produce the burger, things like equipment, labor and everything employees will consume at home (food, energy) thanks to their paychecks that came from the $7/burger. The businessman discovered 1) that there are enough customers nearby willing to patronize the restaurant at the $8/burger price thus providing a superior alternative to society and he also discovered 2) how to reorder $7 worth of stuff(labor/supplies/etc.) to produce the burger. If he sets prices too high, customers will choose other superior competing options, if too low, they might not cover costs and cause the business to consume more than it produces leading to an overall shrinking of the economic pie and thus go out of business. Communism can’t work because only businessmen dispersed throughout society are at the right time and place needed to discover people’s desires(1) and (2) the information needed to properly set prices and thus create a profitable order (one that produces more than it consumes).

4. War is the absolute worst thing for the economy and mankind. Millions of people, previously employed or not, join the war effort by either killing fellow human beings and destroying wealth or working to create armaments/etc. thus increasing the economic pie by little in terms of civilian goods, and while they do so, they must consume food, energy, etc., real useful stuff, thus leading to an obvious overall shrinking of the economic pie in terms of useful civilian goods. They are all working of course, but ultimately they are not ordered in a way that truly grows the economic pie with the wealth that makes life worth living and can be further consumed while producing more things. If military spending and “full employment” thanks to it were a good thing, then the militaristic Soviet Union and North Korea would have flourished. 

5. Mainstream "Keynesian" economists like Paul Krugman and proponents of Modern Monetary Theory are totally clueless. John Maynard Keynes writes:
"…activity of one kind or another is the only possible means of making the wheels of economic progress and of the production of wealth go round again" Wrong! the "activity" MUST be coordinated in a manner that leads to more production than consumption, something only free individuals in the private sector could possible accomplish, otherwise you are obviously destroying the social order which is precisely what war does. But the clueless mainstream economists like 2008 Nobel Laureate in Economics Paul Krugman and the Modern Monetary Theory proponents don't understand this vital fact. So the erroneous belief that the real savings/wealth that businesses MUST consume while they produce can be created by central banks by just creating more money to then “stimulate the economy” (i.e. ‘activity of one kind or another’ even if you have 0 regard for whether the people are ordered in a way that produces more than it consumes), provide the one-two punch of fallacies that keep the mainstream making the same errors over and over, culminating in the most horrific economic fallacy that could possibly exist, that war is good for the economy and its corollary, that WWII is what got the USA out of the Great Depression of the 1930s. The following clip by Krugman and CNN news anchor Fareed Zakaria beautifully captures the fallacies of Keynesian economics, Krugman, and the mainstream media:


How can getting millions of people to consume/wear-down existing wealth to produce weapons which are then used to destroy fellow human beings and their property be anything other than an obvious reduction in life/wealth/order? Krugman's statement is the perfect example of what Mises once told students: 

>"Don't be afraid to speak up. Remember, whatever you say about the subject and however wrong it might be, the same thing has already been said by some eminent [economist."]


The fallacies intensify when we look at Stephanie Kelton, the main proponent of Modern Monetary Theory who sees herself as some revolutionary intellectual comparable to Copernicus who helped revolutionize our recent understanding of the heavens by showing that the earth went around the sun. In her case she believes that the USA (or any country that issues it's own currency) "can prioritize the security and wellbeing of its people without needing to worry about how to pay for it." Why??? Because any government that creates its own currency can always just create the money to finance whatever the well-intentioned experts think is good for the people. Genius! She is totally detached from the obvious fact that money is not the same thing as wealth and that all that government money creation does is just transfer wealth from the private sector, to whatever government entity gets it. Consider the following speech by Margaret Thatcher which Kelton critisizes:




We summarize...

We have discussed how private property leads to freedom to trade which turns on economic competition which motivates the creation of superior information and subsequent order as well as shaping our morals. We have discussed production, consumption, economic calculation, the relationship between money and prices, how government money creation is just an additional tax that like all taxes just transfers wealth, the inherent inefficiencies and perverse incentives found in governments and finally the impossibility of Communism. We are now ready to understand how the same economic fallacies which led to the rise of Communism and the Soviet Union are simply repeating themselves.

It could be said that Socialism/Communism is a complex of economic fallacies which was almost bound to happen as the social order morphed itself from the easy-to-understand small farm/towns of the pre-1800s to the bewildering growing complexity of the social order brought about by industrialization, world-wide free-trade/competition/Capitalism. Without an understanding of what has just been discussed, most intellectuals of the 1800s/1900s, with the best of intentions, just believed that a far more prosperous and "just" world could be achieved by central planning. Albert Einstein is perhaps the perfect example of a "genius" who with the best of intentions would use his "reason" to provide what is essentially a recipe for the destruction of civilization via his economically ignorant push for 'central planning'/Socialism. In his 1949 article "Why Socialism?" he writes:

"Technological progress frequently results in more unemployment rather than in an easing of the burden of work for all. The profit motive, in conjunction with competition among capitalists, is responsible for an instability in the accumulation and utilization of capital which leads to increasingly severe depressions. Unlimited competition leads to a huge waste of labor…I am convinced there is only one way to eliminate these grave evils, namely through the establishment of a socialist economy, accompanied by an educational system which would be oriented toward social goals. In such an economy, the means of production are owned by society itself and are utilized in a planned fashion. A planned economy, which adjusts production to the needs of the community, would distribute the work to be done among all those able to work and would guarantee a livelihood to every man, woman, and child." [(Einstein, 1949)](https://monthlyreview.org/2009/05/01/why-socialism/)

Numerous disastrous economic fallacies can be found above. "Technological progress" allows us to lower costs so more wealth can be created while consuming less thus growing the economic pie. Technological progress has made it so that on average a single worker in the agricultural sector, thanks to increasingly automated tractors/machinery, can create vast quantities of food and competition between such farmers guarantees that they must innovate and copy each other's innovations and that they must sell their food cheaply/competitively so now the masses have more wealth to spend in other sectors helping them grow, like the IT sector and everything else we now have since we don't have 80% of people working on farms like we did just a few centuries ago. The wealth that no longer sustains a job that has been lost to automation simply goes to sustain some other job, allowing us to easily afford more stuff, the stuff that got automated, plus the new stuff we spend our money/wealth on. Einstein is utterly clueless about the fact that the "accumulation" of wealth by savers and the much vilified rich/capitalists, thanks to the the banking/finance industries, is borrowed by entrepreneurs and spent/consumed sustaining private sector jobs. It is important to realize that, as the great economist Henry Hazlitt writes in his classic “Economics in One Lesson”:

>“ “Saving,” in short, in the modern world, is only another form of spending. The usual difference is that the money is turned over to someone else to spend on means to increase production”,

and that this increase in production has to be at least large enough to pay back the loan with interest. Taxing "the rich" just removes this wealth and the private sector jobs it would otherwise sustain and gives it to government where it is inefficiently consumed while producing little in comparison leading to massive relative losses.

So as painful as it might be to admit for some, if Einstein can be so clueless, we can hardly blame Lenin, Stalin, Mao, Roosevelt and the countless others for the economic suffering they caused. Socialism/Communism/'viral economic fallacies' did not spread and destroy much of the 20th century because of a few bad apples or tyrants; they first spread through the minds of well-meaning citizens and intellectuals like Einstein which then gave the future leaders the moral and intellectual justification for their actions. Hayek writes:

"It is necessary to realize that the sources of many of the most harmful agents in this world are often not evil men but high-minded idealists, and that in particular the foundations of totalitarian barbarism have been laid by honourable and well-meaning scholars who never recognized the offspring they produced." (Hayek F. A., 1973, p. 70)

"Most people are still unwilling to face the most alarming lesson of modern history: that the greatest crimes of our time have been committed by governments that had the enthusiastic support of millions of people who were guided by moral impulses. It is simply not true that Hitler or Mussolini, Lenin or Stalin, appealed only to the worst instincts of their people: they also appealed to some of the feelings which also dominate contemporary democracies." (Hayek F. A., 1976, p. 134)

And Mises:

"The intellectual leaders of the peoples have produced and propagated the fallacies which are on the
point of destroying liberty and Western civilization. The intellectuals alone are responsible for the mass
slaughters which are the characteristic mark of our century. They alone can reverse the trend and pave
the way for a resurrection of freedom.

Not mythical "material productive forces," but reason and ideas determine the course of human affairs.
What is needed to stop the trend towards socialism and despotism is common sense and moral courage."


It is monumentally important that we see Communism/'Central Planning' and Lenin's Bolshevik Revolution which created the Soviet Union(1922) as an almost inevitable spread of viral self-reinforcing economic fallacies and incentives that were just bound to finally spark in a truly sustainable reaction. It wasn't just the economic fallacies, but a perverse incentive structure too. A young idealistic Russian could worry about how to make a good living in the always-uncertain and competitive private sector, or by joining Lenin and his Bolsheviks he could become a hero to mankind by just forcing farmers to give up their grain to feed a bureaucracy/monopoly of "experts" who would plan a superior order. Sign me up! Again, we must focus on how the ideas lead the slightly smarter apes into either carnage or civilization. As Mises tells us:

"It is ideas that group men into fighting factions, that press the weapons into their hands, and that determine against whom and for whom the weapons shall be used. It is they alone, and not arms, that, in the last analysis, turn the scales."

Lenin was a "great leader" who had the "strength" to carry out his vision. An example of one of the orders he was sending to various cities/districts to deal with farmers (kulaks) who were rebelling against the grain requisitions went as follows:

>“Comrades! The kulak uprising in your five districts must be crushed without pity. The interests of the whole revolution demand such actions, for the final struggle with the kulaks has now begun. You must make an example of these people. (1) Hang (I mean hang publicly, so that people see it) at least 100 kulaks, rich bastards, and known blood-suckers. (2) Publish their names. (3) Seize all their grain. (4) Single out the hostages per my instructions in yesterday’s telegram. Do all this so that for miles around people see it all. Understand it, tremble, and tell themselves that we are killing the bloodthirsty kulaks and that we will continue to do so. Reply saying you have received and carried out these instructions. Yours, Lenin. P.S. Find tougher people.” (Panne, et al., p. 72)"

The unproductive chaos/tyranny that Lenin was creating inevitably brought a gigantic famine that would claim about 5 million lives in 1921 and 1922. The majestic “The Black Book of Communism: Crimes, Terror, Repression” explains:

>“Despite the bad harvest of 1920…All grain stocks, even the seed for the future harvest, had been seized. Numerous peasants had virtually nothing to eat since January 1921. The mortality rate had immediately increased in February. In the space of two to three months, riots and revolts against the regime had effectively stopped in the province of Samara. “Today,” Vavilin explained, “there are no more revolts. We see new phenomena instead: crowds of thousands of starving people gather around the Executive Committee or the Party headquarters of the soviet to wait, for days and days, for the miraculous appearance of the food they need. It is impossible to chase this crowd away, and every day more of them die. They are dropping like flies…I think there must be at least 900,000 starving people in this province.” … “Though perfectly well informed of the inevitable consequences of the requisitioning policy, the government took no steps to combat these predicted effects. On 30 July 1921, while famine gripped a growing number of regions, Lenin and Molotov sent a telegram to all leaders of regional and provincial Party committees asking them to “bolster the mechanisms for food collection…step up the propaganda for the rural population, explaining the economic and political importance of the prompt payment of taxes…put at the disposal of the agencies for the collection of taxes in kind all the authority of the Party, and allow them to use all the disciplinary measures that the state itself would use.”” (Panne, et al., pp. 120-1)

Fortunately other Bolshevik leaders helped Lenin accept relief from international organizations like the Red Cross, the Quakers, and future US President Herbert Hoover’s American Relief Association whose combined efforts fed a whopping 11 million people each day. Lenin’s anti-market thus anti-production and thus anti-life/order government-control-measures where such a disaster that by 1921 Lenin scaled some of it back in what was called the NEP (New Economic Policy). The NEP essentially reintroduced some levels of private property/enterprise, especially for farmers/kulaks, which immediately led to a better functioning of 'the market process' and substantial increases in food production (40% increase for 1921-22). 

Among the numerous things to learn from this and similar disasters is the fact that it is understandably difficult for ideologues like Lenin and his governmental structure to change their minds since not only do they have to admit to error but also realize that they have caused unimaginable suffering. This is just the kind of stuff the slightly smarter apes don't do that often. The incentives are to look the other way, or place the blame elsewhere. Even though Lenin was becoming aware of the chaos he was causing, he understandably had incentives to look for other causes, like saboteurs, the rich/'capitalist exploiters', the religious/church who did not want to relinquish power/authority etc. It was his economic policies that were intensifying the misery, but he would just double-down further intensifying it. Even though plenty of people knew Communism would bring about unimaginable suffering, the rate at which the economic ignorance/fallacies and perverse incentives appealed to the tribalistic smarter apes was much faster than the rate at which proper arguments against it could spread. One could say that the definitive knockout blow that proved the impossibility of central planning did not even exist until Ludwig von Mises wrote his ["Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth"](https://mises.org/library/economic-calculation-socialist-commonwealth) in 1920, far away and in a foreign language. Without sound economic arguments which were also brief enough to be somewhat viral much of mankind was doomed. The religious traditions of looking at the world's problems as the result of "good" vs. "evil" did not work with the atheistic Socialists/Communists who thanks to scientific progress would discard religion-based moral arguments, in other words, mankind was stuck in what Mises referred to as "the moral sphere". He writes: "The rigid dogmatism peculiar to religious groups and to Marxism results only in irreconcilable conflict. It condemns beforehand all dissenters as evildoers, it calls into question their good faith, it asks them to surrender unconditionally. No social cooperation is possible where such an attitude prevails." Thus the ideological battle between the atheistic 'central planning by experts' viral fallacies and inherited religious traditions continued, with religion, private property, and thus humanity, suffering immensely. In the period between 1927 and 1940, the number of Orthodox Churches in the Soviet Union fell from 29,584 to less than 500. The Soviet Union’s anti-religion purges were equal-opportunity, in 1917 there were over 20,000 Islamic mosques in the Soviet Union, by 1935 there would be less than 60. Thousands of priests would stick to their faith and quickly be shot. The atheistic nature of the Soviet Union obviously played a role in making it so much easier to discard human life and thus tremendously deadlier. 
 
In February 25th 1956 Stalin’s successor Nikita Khrushchev shook the world by admitting that "the Great Terror", a political witch-hunt that Stalin carried out (1936-38) and led to the execution of about 700,000 people had been based on lies/exaggerations/etc. He had to wait till Stalin's death to admit this "mistake", however, it was not till Mikhail Gorbachev in 1991 that enough doubt and dissent emerged within the political structure and public in the USSR to finally put an end to the more textbook communist/socialist intellectual error and resulting perverse incentives and relative tyranny that ruled that area since 1918. But the challenge did not end there, how do you get millions of people who have spent generations looking at a single bureaucracy to manage the social order and at least keep them alive to abandon that 'order maker' and trust freedom and competition, especially if you were a mid-to-senior bureaucrat with low-productive skill? Or if you were one of the thousands upon thousands of "educated scientists" whose technical and scientific knowledge was simply not conducive to creating the things that free people, instead Communist bureaucrats, wanted? 

With the above in mind, we are almost ready to analyze our current situation, but first, a few words about WWI.

In August 10, 1915, British physicist Henry Mosely, who would have probably won the Nobel Prize that year, died in perhaps the most disastrous error mankind has thus far made, The First World War (1914–18). Bright and pious German/French/British/Russian… students, fathers, engineers, "great minds" and "experts", who even shared a common European Christian faith, reverted to their tribal ape-like nature, and for God, honor, flag and country, slaughtered each other leading to about 18 million deaths. At 7:30 am July 1st, 1916 the 'Battle of the Somme' began. On this single day, just the British alone, had about 20,000 fatalities and 35,000 wounded. On that day a British soldier was either killed or wounded on average every second. The "honor" of a military career would lead to disproportionately higher losses for the upper classes for all belligerents. Germany's top general, Erich Ludendorff would lose two sons, as would future British Prime Minister Andrew Bonar Law. British Prime Minister at the start of the war, Herbert Asquith, lost one. While about 12% of British troops would die in the war, 31% of Oxford's 1913 graduating class would die. This should help abolish the popular naive myth that politicians are quick to bring about wars while wanting to avoid personal loses in them. Nonsense unfortunately, we are dangerous tribal animals who have been butchering each other for millions of years, segregating ourselves into groups for slaughter has been the norm. 
We shouldn't be shocked when men murder, rape and torture, or masturbate to tentacle porn, the real miracle that has taken thousands of years of cultural/legal evolution to create, are the modern cultural values/laws we absorb that program us into respecting the body/property/thoughts of all human beings regardless of age, sex, beliefs, and race. Being the social slightly smarter apes that we are, fellow humans are our biggest assets which helps explain the evolution of altruism/compassion due to the great benefits we get at the group-level, and horrendous violence towards fellow men since we are our biggest competitors. 

Given its importance, war/patriotism easily fills us with a great sense of purpose. England's prime minister during WWII and national hero Winston Churchill shows us how inspiring, exciting and purposeful WWI was to him when he mentioned:

>"I think a curse should rest on me - because I love this war. I know it's smashing and shattering the lives of thousands every moment - and yet - I can't help it - I enjoy every second of it." [(Churchill)](https://foreignpolicy.com/2009/02/25/churchills-advice/)

And in another occasion:

>"My God! This is living History. Everything we are doing and saying is thrilling… Why I would not be out of this glorious delicious war for anything the world could give me…" [(Churchill, per Margot Asquith)](https://books.google.com/books?id=MzytDwAAQBAJ&pg=PT297&lpg=PT297&dq=%22My+God!+This+is+living+History.+Everything+we+are+doing+and+saying+is+thrilling%22&source=bl&ots=zYG1LaIeSU&sig=ACfU3U3RqPMPBYEmjxIkEd7kh_p8RBiKrw&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiiycmAr-7mAhWVoJ4KHSSzAQIQ6AEwAXoECAoQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22My%20God!%20This%20is%20living%20History.%20Everything%20we%20are%20doing%20and%20saying%20is%20thrilling%22&f=false)

Towards the end of WWII, Russia's Red Army is estimated to have raped over 2 million German women. Equally human, the Allies/Americans weren't much better and generally saw the Japanese as an inferior race and cared little for their suffering or views, as US president who nuked Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Harry S. Truman, mentions in a letter:

>"The only language they seem to understand is the one we have been using to bombard them. When you have to deal with a beast you have to treat him as a beast." [(Truman letter to Samuel McCrea Cavert, General Secretary of The Churches of Christ in America)](http://www.nuclearfiles.org/menu/library/correspondence/truman-harry/corr_truman_1945-08-11.htm)


How can mankind build mindbogglingly complex microchips, smartphones, the Internet and so much more, yet still not have figured out something as simple as peace? Why is it that every day at Microsoft I interact with co-workers from Russia, China, Iran, Israel, etc. yet our tribalistic governments are mired in conflict? Is there something to be learned from the fact that in July 1914 so many people/Henrys/leaders/"experts" brainwashed themselves into such needless carnage yet hardly anyone today has the slightest clue why WWI was fought? Everyone in that tribal disaster died for absolutely nothing! Similarly, is there something to be learned from the fact that with the best of intentions and guided by numerous bright intellectuals millions during the 20th century fell for Socialism/Communism thus inadvertently bringing unimaginable suffering upon themselves? and that to this day hardly anyone in the entire planet knows why Communism IS 100% IMPOSSIBLE to implement without it leading to socioeconomic chaos/famines? Yes, there is much to be learned but for now we will mention that human beings are dangerous tribal animals whose economic ignorance, if not remedied in time, will lead to a Final Disaster. The relative freedom and socioeconomic prosperity that we have enjoyed in the West for just a few generations has been a slight cultural mutation from the 'Law of the Jungle' our despotic and uncivilized instincts are very used to and the Coronavirus is in all likelihood one of these potential totally man-made tribalistic and ultimately economically ignorant disasters like the prior two.

We reach the present

We begin with the most important point, the economic fallacies and perverse incentives which quickly led to the formation of the Soviet Union are still very much with us. New potential problems like global pollution, man-made environmental impacts, the alleged potential for some pathogen to spread via our interconnected world and wipe out millions of people, and numerous other concerns intensify and accelerate the spread of central planning fallacies. The over-population economic fallacy is also rapidly spreading and is one of the most dangerous. Mankind benefits from way more people, not less. In Hayek's words: 

"the greater density of population, leading to the discovery of opportunities for specialisation, or division of
labour, led to yet further increases of population and per capita income that
made possible another increase in the population. And so on."

The more brains, the smarter and more technologically advanced the global supercomputer becomes making it way easier to take care of the environment. Our transition from just larger brained apes in our tribal world to market process coordinated global socioeconomic order/'Social Organism' is as significant in the evolution of life and the continuous increase in complexity on this planet as the transition from single-celled to multicellular life which occurred about a billion years ago. Perhaps someday in the future we could recreate the habitats of species that are dying now and bring them back to life. We are the saviors of all life in this planet, not the destroyers. We are natural selection’s latest and greatest creation. But again, without the proper understanding of the market process we always fall for coercive and economically disastrous central planning.   


The fact that modern Capitalism arose in Europe which is populated by white people is adding another polarizing element to the anti-Capitalist sentiment. To one economically ignorant faction, many people who label themselves "Democrats"/"Liberals", the political "Right"/"Republicans"/"Conservatives" is just the "racist white man who uses Capitalism to exploit and maintain the status quo for his benefit and Donald Trump and all the other white 'conservative' leaders are the perfect embodiment of this fact". That's pretty much it. It is so-called "identity politics", where the "racist white man" oppresses or discriminates against various groups/"identities"(women/minorities) and overturning such supposed political/economic oppression is what is needed to fix the world's problems by sharing more wealth and funding social programs that treat everyone fairly/equitably. Many white liberals, with the best of intentions, might be ashamed of the imperialist past of their ancestors or of the racism of their parents/uncles/etc. and erroneously believe that such a past/racism is a significant factor in the relative underachievement/problems of other groups/minorities/blacks. This is a gigantic error. The relative damage done by whatever "racism" towards minorities some "racist white men" might have is incomparable to and exacerbated by the horrendous economic ignorance that leads to things like minimum wage laws, the truly racist War On Drugs and resulting mass incarceration, the perverse incentives that arise out of numerous welfare schemes, and socialist-share-the-wealth-via-massive-government-monopoly policies the Left/Liberals push. But since the Left/Democrats/Liberals don't understand economics, they are understandably focused on whatever racism they can and do find which further intensifies their misguided socialist economic policies and blame of the "white man" which understandably further increases the polarization that is tearing our nation apart.

Race is relatively insignificant, just a few thousand years ago all of our ancestors were uncivilized tribalistic rapists and murderers. Although it is certainly true that there must be differences in mental ability just like there are differences in physical ones, whatever minute differences can exist are largely irrelevant. The explosion in relative human prosperity, in civilized morality, and technology mankind has stumbled upon during the last 200 years has little to do with biological differences and much more to do with the expansion of individual freedom and respect for private property and resulting free-trade -> competitive knowledge discovery leading to superior information and order, etc. If a human being can grow up and learn something as complex as a language, which can take even the brightest of people years to master, everyone has more than enough intelligence to understand the basics of how freedom and privatization are the keys to rapid socioeconomic progress. Clever economic education/marketing is obviously the key. Hayek summarizes the unimportance of race or biological differences:

>"…biological evolution would have been far too slow to alter or replace man's innate responses in the course of the ten or twenty thousand years during which civilisation has developed…. Thus it hardly seems possible that civilisation and culture are genetically determined and transmitted. They have to be learnt by all alike through tradition." (Hayek's 'The Fatal Conceit' page 16)

Unfortunately the economic ignorance of a few white "racists" and pretty much every "Leftist" who believes we must make criminals of racists and create massive coercive competition-less government bureaucracies to being about some mythical "social justice" 


If mankind survives the Coronavirus-related socioeconomic chaos, it will be seen as another totally unnecessary man-made calamity based on the usual economic fallacies that led to Communism, and just sheer tribalistic hatreds which the slightly smarter apes are easily susceptible to and kept them (and their "great leaders" and "experts") slaughtering each other for 4 years in WWI.






Regardless of what exactly the CV pathogen is and all the technical/scientific details about it, the initial scare and lockdowns were based on a quickly-revised and later totally discredited "epidemiological model" which grossly overestimated the lethality of the Coronavirus by British Professor Neil Ferguson who had made numerous totally bogus and exaggerated predictions before, like:

That up to 50,000 people would likely die from exposure to mad cow disease in beef in the UK, only 177 died.
That up to 150 million people could be killed from bird flu. Only 282 died worldwide between 2003 and 2009.
That swine flu could led to 65,000 deaths in the UK. Only 457 died.
That up to 150,000 people could die from a foot-and-mouth disease scare. There were fewer than 200 deaths.

We must highlight the fact that all of these so-called "diseases" which led to such ultimately over-hyped and totally unnecessary fears and restrictions like "mad cow", "bird flu", "swine flu", "foot-and-mouth" and ultimately the CV disease all seem to involve what we commonly refer to as viruses, which are soo small, that even with our best electron microscopes, their alleged functioning and interactions with the mindboggingly complex immune system remain the subject of much research and competing opinions. Wherever there is complexity, there is bound to be uncertainty. If the "experts" understanding of these flus/pathogens/viruses and our modern technology were anywhere as great as people assume, the much recommended flu vaccine would at least work on most people, but it does not even prevent the flu on less than half of the people who get it.

By March 26th 2020, when the draconian lockdowns were just beginning in the USA, 'well-meaning scholars who never recognized the offspring they produced' like top US Infections Disease expert Dr. Anthony Fauci co-authored a paper in which he admitted:

>"the case fatality rate may be considerably less than 1%. This suggests that the overall clinical consequences of Covid-19 may ultimately be more akin to those of a severe seasonal influenza (which has a case fatality rate of approximately 0.1%)"

It quickly became obvious that the people who were dying, were not necessarily dying because of CV, they simply tested positive for it at the time of death, and the overwhelming majority were very old and had multiple other illnesses and likely to die anyway. For example a whopping 98.1% of people who were labeled as dying from CV in Massachusets had at least one serious health condition. In Italy the average age was 78 and had almost 3 other serious illneses. By early April antibody testing which helped identify people who had already dealt with the CV pathogen, quickly made it obvious that the lethality was similar to that of seasonal flu. Yet the lockdowns intensified.  Just like with Communism anyone could simply look and see that the non-communist countries were doing better, so could people easily see that countries like Sweden, Belarus, Nicaragua, Japan, or even within their own provinces which might not have had lockdowns like South Dakota in the US, were doing comparably well or even better than the lockdown countries. By May 26th, 2020 official stats reached over 100,000 deaths from CV in the USA many of which were fraudelent, for example, even the Washington State government has admitted that people dying of gunshot wounds have been counted as CV deaths. One could easily hypothesize that the true lethality is easily less than 10% of the 100K given the above. There are many many more factors that can easily show that number to be much smaller but I will not even go there. So after 3 months of Corona-hype... 99.997 % of Americans have survived the "pandemic", yet over this completely overhyped tribalistic runaway complex of fallacies and perverse incentives, not only is the USA heading towards socioeconomic chaos as a bunch of economically ignorant politicians try to cope with 41+ million unemployed, a dangerous horde of tribal politicians wants to blame and nearly start a war with China over this as well. 

Just like perverse incentives had young Russians joining the Bolshevicks and inadvertently expading central planning missery,  so is the CV scare. Many people with good intentions believe that even if there is a significant economic price to pay, that if the lockdowns saved lives they would be worth it, especially those who have government jobs like public school teachers/etc. who get to be heroes and take a tax-payer funded vacation at the same time. Just like during WWI the wise people who knew that there was no need to run across trenches for God and country to slaughrer fellow human beings were sent to prison for desertion, and the communists killed people who didn't want to go along for "being selfish and not wanting to share the wealth equally", we see the same tribalistic mentality among many in their desire to vilify those of who just want to go back to work and feel like all this is just one big mistake.


So what must we do? We must become Misesians, we must understand basic economics and help fellow citizens overcome the economic fallacies that plunge us into tribalistic wars and socioeconomic-order destroying central planning. 
If we are to have a world-wide free-market intellectual revolution that can quickly save mankind and reach the amazing peace and prosperity we are truly capable of, and in a matter of MONTHS! not years or generations , we must find/join/persuade people who are thoroughly convinced that such quick prosperity can be achieved and thus become beacons of hope, excitement and viral economic education. We must join Mises and go over the parapet in his "intellectual battle" against the economic ignorance that threatens civilization.

Mises: 

>"Everyone carries a part of society on his shoulders; no one is relieved of his share of responsibility by others. And no one can find a safe way out for himself if society is sweeping towards destruction. Therefore, everyone, in his own interests, must thrust himself vigorously into the intellectual battle. None can stand aside with unconcern; the interests of everyone hang on the result. Whether he chooses or not, every man is drawn into the great historical struggle, the decisive battle into which our epoch [has plunged us."](https://cdn.mises.org/Socialism%20An%20Economic%20and%20Sociological%20Analysis_3.pdf)
 

Just like Socialism/Communism and our big-government problems are caused by viral economic fallacies and resulting perverse incentives that inadvertently lead to bigger government/monopoly growth and thus more coercion of wealth from the private sector, so too should we focus on viral bits of economic wisdom. It would seem wise to focus on those ideas that can both explain the most as quickly as possible and also cause enough doubt on what the current crop of clueless "experts" are recommending(essentially more regulation/planning and 'Central Bank Socialism' by creating money to manage the social order). [Hazlitt wisely identified a focus](https://mises.org/library/task-confronting-libertarians) on the basics on monetary policy and inflation because it is easy to understand, teach, and immediately lets people know that it is the Central Banks that are responsible for the inflation, rising prices, and general growth of government. Hayek's focus on how competition spreads information and superior order and how governments prevent/slow-down this process is also easy and a powerful way to get people closer to the proper understanding of how private property leads to economic freedom which then leads to competition and superior order. There is no reason why famous athletes and movie stars and others of influence can't understand basic economics and be likewise motivated to spread the econogospel. 

Unimaginable peace and prosperity [are just around the corner!.](https://mises.org/library/case-radical-idealism) We just have to help our fellow citizens lose their fear of economic freedom and thus economic ignorance. The bigger the tax-cut, the bigger the job losses/wages in the public sector will be, but just as quickly, the bigger the job gains/wages will be in the private sector as tax-payers now have that additional wealth to keep and to now spend in the private sector thus expanding it. All that will happen is that a public sector employee loses his public sector job and quickly finds a private sector one. Instead of getting his paycheck/wealth by coercing the taxpayer as part of a massively-inefficient government monopoly and thus providing very little in return, he now joins a much more productive private sector order/company that is growing/hiring because tax-payers are now giving them more business/money/wealth with which to hire/sustain him. All wealth that is given by government has to be taken away coercively (or sneakily via inflation) from others who in a sense gave up a part of their lives to produce it. Whenever you get something from the government you are essentially consuming another person's life/order. This is not some moralist crusade against government, we just want to understand and minimize such inefficient coercion which when properly understood, most of us will find it immoral. The better people understand economics the more they will be willing to go along with these transitions to skyrocketing prosperity, even those who currently have relatively well-paid government jobs. Again, economic education is the key.


we must focus on the easy to understand and thus viral and important subjects. Like:

Government money creation is just and additional tax that transfers wealth and increases prices.
Private property leads to freedom to trade which turns on economic competition which motivates the creation and spread of superior information and order which includes our morals, and how government bureaucracies and regulations are competition-immune and inefficient bureocracies which should wisely be kept to a minimum. Government should be seen as the protector of freedom so that the resulting 'market process' can best reorder mankind, instead of being erroneaously seen as the 'order maker'. 


Besides viral economic education, perhaps the three most pressing issues confronting us now are:

1. The tribalisistic tensions warmongering with China must be calmed. Just like with WWI, at some point any talk about peace and getting along will just be seen as treason. This is what the apes always fall for. You can be sure that the "War is good for the economy" fallacy is spreading through the minds of the economically ignorant slightly smarter apes that run all governments, especially as the CV-related socioeconomic disaster intensifies. Citizens must be awoken to the real pressing danger that nuclear war is. The next two minutes are a wonderful discussion about this danger by Noam Chomsky, discussing Daniel Elsbergs great book about nuclear war "The Doomsday Machine"

2. The 40+ million unemployed can get back to work and on path to unimaginable peace and prosperity in a few weeks. What is the problem we are trying to solve. We need to order those 40+ million in a manner that they are guided by the most productive knowledge, so they produce as much wealth as possible so that they can consume and enjoy as much wealth as possible. The only way to "discover" how to do this is via economic freedom. Right now I could easily hire 50 people in my building for $1/hour and rent them out to give massages, do laundry, deliveries, etc., however, competition from other entrepreneurs/brains/CPUs who have superior time and place specific information would pay them more and thus lure them away from my inferior and less productive plans so that very quickly everyone would be incorporated in the most profitable plans the millions of competing brains can come up with. It is of course vitally important that minimum wage laws are abolished so we allow all profitable ideas/restructurings to occur. 

The Coronavirus lockdowns have led to more consumption than production thus obviously shrinking the economic pie. The less seed a farmer has to plant for the next crop, the smaller the crop will be. Since there exists less wealth, the wealth that can be traded for people's labor will be smaller and therefore people should expect lower wages. Most of the 40+ million people who have lost their jobs would probably be able to work in the same companies as before if they are wise enough to accept correspondingly lower pay. Most of us have been made poorer, we will have less wealth to trade for meals at restaurants which means less wealth/revenue for restaurants and correspondingly smaller wages if they are to remain in business/profitable. Since many businesses, especially restaurants, already pay minimum or close to minimum wages, many will not be allowed to lower wages and have to stop producing altogether. Once again, minimum wage laws must be scrapped. 

When a business like an airline goes bankrupt and ownership/assets are now in the hands of creditors, what usually happens is that the creditors are motivated to sell the business to a competitor who is likely to have the best ideas/information leading to profitable use of resources/labor and will thus typically be the highest bidder for the old airline/business. That's all, financers/investors take losses and often employees also see their wages reduced as part of a now-profitable company/order. Economic education is obviously the most important thing needed to allow the necessary freedom for this to happen. 

3. The disastrous and racist war on drugs must be ended immediately and everyone in jail because of it freed. A proper understanding of economics is vital for realy understanding the immense cancer that it is on society, and especially African Americans. 

Many people like mind-altering substances/drugs/alcohol/etc., mankind always has and they have played an important role in our cultural evolution since getting high was an important way to interact with the spirit world/gods which played a vital role in the emergence of our religions/rules/laws/etc. Since many drugs are outlawed but people still want them and are thus willing to trade money for them, their cost has to pay for the additional risk/consumption involved in their production like the concealment, bribes to corrupt cops that will look the other way and more. This is why a kilogram of cocaine that may cost $200 to produce in a Bolivian jungle might sell for $20,000 in New York City. 

The relative higher price needed to cover such costs/consumption inevitably motivates people, especially poorer and less educated/productive, to enter the drug-production and trafficking business. Eventually these people get busted which now forces taxpayers to pay over $31,000 per year per inmate (over $60,000 in California and in NYC it is a whopping $168,000) to keep each drug dealer and user in jail. From 1984 to 1996, California built 21 new prisons, and only one [new university.](https://www.drugwarfacts.org/chapter/prison) In 2006 there were 1,889,810 drug related arrests, of which almost 830,000 were related to marijuana, which is relatively harmless, and much less so than alcohol.

 Just try to imagine all the wealth that is consumed from society as we feed, clothe and equip the criminal-industrial-complex as it does this useless function. Each drug bust and jailing of dealers/producers simply reduces the supply of drugs which means a smaller amount of wealth being chased by the same amount of money so that their price simply goes up, once again increasing the motivation for people to become drug producers/traffickers/dealers. 
 This is a cycle that never ends and has nearly half a million Americans in jail at an enormous cost to taxpayers and causing horrible suffering and misery in poorer Latin American countries where powerful drug cartels/businesses emerge because the cost to not only manufacture the drugs is smaller but to also avoid/bribe/terrorize the local police/citizens which explains why countries like Mexico have so much drug-related violence. The US government further intensifies the suffering by taxing and taking wealth from Americans to then arm and train the police in those countries to help crack down on the cartels leading to brutal mini-civil wars. If drugs were legalized, instead of having millions of people consuming billions of dollars worth of wealth as they made a living doing the expensive and deadly aforementioned activities (cartels/prisons), you would simply get a small increase in the people employed in the pharmaceutical and agricultural industry lowering their price to that of your average multivitamin. The money saved by drug users and taxpayers since jails would no longer be needed would now get spent in other areas increasing employment and wages in those industries. 

the war on drugs allows racist white cops to inflict immense harm on the black comminuty.
Regarding the police abuse and racism I'll just read a few revealing quotes.

Harry J. Anslinger, the nation’s first Drug Czar, before Congress in 1937 said: 

>“There are 100,000 total marijuana smokers in the U.S. and most are Negroes, Hispanics, Filipinos and entertainers. Their satanic music, jazz and swing, result from marijuana use. This marijuana causes white women to seek sexual relations with Negroes.”


Similar interracial fears were at play in some of our very first drug prohibitions, in this case involving Opium and the Chinese that brought it over here.  In San Francisco in 1875 when the City of San Francisco passed the first laws aimed at prohibiting drug use.

>“The roots of this ordinance were racist rather than health-oriented, and were concerned with what today is known as "life-style." Opium smoking was introduced into the United States by tens of thousands of Chinese men and boys imported during the l850s and 1880s to build the great Western railroads. The Chinese laborers then drifted into San Francisco and other cities, and accepted employment of various kinds at low wages --- giving rise to waves of anti-Chinese hostility. Soon white men and even women were smoking opium side by side with the Chinese, a life-style which was widely disapproved. The San Francisco authorities, we are told learned upon investigation that "many women and young girls, as well as young men of respectable family, were being induced to visit the [Chinese] opium-smoking dens, where they were ruined morally [and otherwise”](http://www.druglibrary.org/schaffer/library/studies/cu/cu6.htm#Anchor-44867)

Again, economic education is the key.



I will finish with another quote, this time by one of Mises greatest students, Prof. George Resiman. This quote is a bit more personal. Like many recently graduated computer programmers, there was a time when I wanted to be some great software entrepreneur. All that changed when I ran into this quote. From then onwards I just wanted to be the best "friend of mankind" that I could.

 “The solution to the present problem of massive, overwhelming poverty is nothing other than the science of economics. As should be increasingly clear, economics is a science which can make possible the construction of a social and political system in which human success is a feature of normal, everyday life everywhere. It is truly the humanitarian science, and only those who have studied it well and who are prepared to implement its teachings deserve to be called friends of mankind. The most important charity which true friends of mankind can pursue is to disseminate knowledge of this vital subject as widely and as deeply as they know how.”


If you would like to help my campaign and help spread an understanding of economics, 
please share this video especially to famous and influential people,  and like and follow my campaign's facebook page. I am running in WA's  9th district which includes offices of today's leading IT companies like Amazon, Google and Microsoft. If we can just get the increasingly influential and powerful software world to truly understand economic freedom we will finally triumph in our intellectual battle.