Hello, I'd like to begin my little speech here with a quote from the great intellectual slayer of Socialism and defender of real freedom and real Capitalism, obviously not the convoluted mess we have today , ludwig von Mises, He wrote in 1962:

"There is no use in deceiving ourselves. American public opinion rejects the market economy, the capitalistic free-enterprise system that provided the nation with the highest standard of living ever attained...
If we want to avoid the destruction of Western civilization and the relapse into primitive wretchedness, we must change the mentality of our fellow citizens. We must make them realize what they owe to the much vilified "economic freedom," the system of free enterprise and capitalism....
The issues of society's economic organization are every citizen's business. To master them to the best of one's ability is the duty of everyone."

So next I'll say something about economic freedom. These are tiny excerpts from a small hour-long introduction to economics you can read for free at my campaing site votebesada.com and also on amazon's kindle titled and it titled "The Primary Civic Duty: Economics for Citizens"


Your life, the wealth you consume, the entire global economy and thus all of human civilization is the inadvertent result of a simple concept or better said, tradition. The tradition of private property. Private property means that a person owns and has the freedom to use his property as he desires/calculates. Our freedom to trade our private property with anyone in the entire planet inadvertently transforms billions of free people into a global super-computer where all companies are motivated to innovate and learn from each other thus inadvertently cooperate to discover superior information with which to serve customers and reorder all of mankind. Companies that don’t successfully compete (innovate/learn) won’t get enough revenue to pay a competitive wage, motivating employees to once again use their freedom to trade, this time their labor, to quit and join the increasingly better-informed and thus more productive and thus higher-paying companies. Just like in the Olympics we can discover the best athletes in the world due to global competition, so does free-trade among all nations allows the best ideas to compete and spread globally thus ensuring the best possible global order. As cost-cutting ideas emerge and inevitably spread via competition leading relative prices to continuously fall, new profitable ideas easily arise and once again spread via competition in an endless cycle of knowledge generation/innovation. For example, computers were once very expensive, but once the price of making them came down enough, people easily realized that every home could have them, which gave birth to our computerized world and the Internet and all the great things that flow from it.

Government regulations are just information not subject to continuous improvement and replacement via competition so they paralyze entire industries driving up costs. Compare the increasingly regulated/paralyzed healthcare sector which has grown from consuming about 5% of the economic pie in 1960 to nearly 20% today, to the free/competitive IT sector where even the poorest of Americans can afford amazing Cellphones and technology. In the regulated and thus paralyzed healthcare sector what a person must learn in order to legally offer medical advice via licensing of doctors, where he must learn it via licensing of medical schools, what chemical compounds can be legally consumed, how to test drugs, how the medical insurance industry should work, and countless other gigantic bodies of knowledge/information are dictated by monopolistic competition-less bureaucracies like the American Medical Association (AMA), the Food And Drug Administration (FDA) and numerous others. By comparison, the Information Technology sector has very few government regulations so competition motivates the creation and spread of superior information at breakneck speed and is obviously transforming our world right before our eyes.  Economic ignorance leads many to believe that since one has to be seemingly more careful with medicine, such monopolistic regulatory oversight is somehow necessary. This is irrelevant, if it is superior information that is needed, which includes figuring out how careful to be, freedom and competition is the best way to discover it, period. My guess is that if the healthcare sector, or better yet, the entire world-wide economy was as deregulated/free/competitive as the Software/IT sector, in a few months the cost of healthcare would drop by at least 80%, the rate of innovation and prosperity would skyrocket and I would guess that people who as of today have 10 years left to live might be able to beat dying of old age.  Only the truly economically woke can easily accept the feasibility of this statement. But human flight is impossible obviously. 

We should also quickly add that morals are simply ways of acting, they are knowledge, which like most knowledge, emerges and spreads via economic competition. It is hard-working, tolerant, courteous people who thanks to competition inevitably motivate everyone else to be likewise. As Hayek tells us:

“Competition is, after all, always a process in which a small number makes it necessary for larger numbers to do what they do not like, be it to work harder, to change habits, or to devote a degree of attention, continuous application, or regularity to their work which without competition would not be needed.” (Hayek)

As millions of Italians, Britons, Germans and other immigrants from all over the world came to America and the Statue of Liberty served it's true purpose of welcoming them, it was ultimately the competition which grows from ‘private property’ and thus individual liberty/freedom which stripped these people of their otherwise nationalistic/ethnocentric/tribalistic identities and evolved what came to be seen as the classic American character/ethos of wanting to be seen as a reputable/honest businessman/professional who treats everyone with respect and wears a business suit as opposed to older religious/ethnocentric dress. Thus we can see that Freedom is "The Ultimate Algorithm", it discovers the information that orders civilization, it civilizes our morals, is also indispensable for discovering the TRUTH and is the very opposite of coercion and tyranny.






Governmental/’public sector’ orders, being COERCIVE MONOPOLIES which get their wealth through taxes/compulsion are immune to the competitive-information-spreading incentives/pressures which motivate private sector companies/individuals to be efficient/innovative/hard-working. This helps one understand how Communism, which abolishes competing private companies and replaces them with a single competition-less monopolistic bureaucracy run by "experts", leads to a massive lack of production/innovation and eventually socioeconomic chaos/starvation as the economic pie continuously shrinks as has happened in every country that consciously attempts Communism/Socialism or inadvertently drifts in that direction as their inefficient governments and public sectors get bigger and bigger (USA/Word).  Central plans can’t work if people are free to not go along with them — so they inevitably require compulsion/tyranny. For example, it is a criminal act in Communist countries like my native Cuba to start a business, in other words, to attempt a superior restructuring of society because it interferes with the plans of "the experts" who run the government. It is also a criminal act everywhere to not pay taxes that sustain public sector bureaucracies like “public education” so there is little incentive or wealth to sustain other, more desirable/superior competitors/alternatives. For example, the NYC public(monopolistic) school bureaucracy consumes about $29,000 per year to “educate” a K-12 student. Refusing to pay a single dollar that goes to this coercive bureaucracy is a criminal act. 


The former Soviet Union had plenty of highly educated scientists/'experts' whose plans required the coercion of millions, but they were thoroughly crushed by free Americans and their competitive knowledge discovery as they worked hard towards the American Dream. Socialist regimes and public sectors in general also face an "incentive problem." In free societies, or the private sector, each person/company is incentivized to be as productive as possible and keep inefficiencies to a minimum since he owns/keeps the additional wealth or losses. On the other hand, the government employee or bureaucrat gets the same pay (ability to then consume) whether his department did a good job (produced a lot) or not, and is also not risking his own wealth since that comes from the taxpayers. The image below is one of our most powerful memes for explaining the difference between competitive/private orders(South Korea) and monopolistic/government orders (North Korea). Again, keep your eye on how information arises/spreads and continuously restructures the social order.  

Regulations are just information not subject to continuous improvement via competition so they paralyze entire industries driving up costs. Compare the increasingly regulated/paralyzed healthcare sector which has grown from consuming about 5% of the economic pie in 1960 to nearly 20% today, to the free/competitive IT sector where even the poorest of Americans can afford amazing technology.
In the regulated/paralyzed healthcare sector what a person must learn in order to legally offer medical advice via licensing of doctors, where he must learn it via licensing of medical schools, what chemical compounds can be legally consumed, how to test drugs, how the medical insurance industry should work, and countless other gigantic bodies of knowledge/information are dictated by monopolistic competition-less bureaucracies like the American Medical Association (AMA), the Food And Drug Administration (FDA) and numerous others. By comparison, the Information Technology sector has very few government regulations so competition motivates the creation and spread of superior information at breakneck speed and is obviously transforming our world right before our eyes. Teenagers can work at Google/Microsoft/Amazon and write the software that keeps planes in the sky or people alive via software in medical equipment, yet there is no American Association of Computer Programmers dictating what or where such knowledge can be obtained similar to how the government via the AMA regulates/monopolizes/paralyzes the medical sector via the licensing of doctors, medical schools, insurance sector, etc. There is no government monopolistic bureaucracy ensuring the proper functioning of the software that runs PCs, smart-phones, the Internet, or ensuring the lack of malware or viruses in software. Freedom and competition in the Software Development industry is even quickly evolving culture. It is increasingly seen as uncool and backward to have a traditional degree, where one wastes thousands of dollars and time physically attending gigantic temple-like universities, inefficiently ("professors" instead of popular online videos you can pause/rewind) "learning" things that have nothing (English 101, etc.) to do with being a productive software/web/IT professional. Thanks to this lack of monopolistic centralized decision making/regulating/paralyzing, education in the Software Development/IT world is astounding. At places like www.freecodecamp.org thousands of people are going from 0 experience to highly-paid computer programmers in just a few months for free. IT companies who reach a large enough size ultimately due to the great services they provide, and therefore the useful/profitable knowledge they contain, like Microsoft, Google, Amazon, and many others, go about creating their own competing educational institutions which train and test people using their products and technologies which are solving real problems and have been shaped by years of fierce competition/innovation. There are over 2.1 million individuals worldwide who have become Microsoft Certified Professionals(MCPs) by studying for and passing exams created by Microsoft. These exams change frequently to reflect the never-ending cycle of knowledge generation that exists in this freer and less regulated sector of the economy. Economic ignorance leads many to believe that since one has to be seemingly more careful with medicine, such monopolistic regulatory oversight is somehow necessary. This is irrelevant, if it is superior information that is needed, which includes figuring out how careful to be, freedom and competition is the best way to discover it, period. My guess is that if the healthcare sector, or better yet, the entire world-wide economy was as deregulated/free/competitive as the Software/IT sector, in a few months the cost of healthcare would drop by at least 80%, the rate of innovation and prosperity would skyrocket and I would guess that people who as of today have 10 years left to live might be able to beat dying of old age.  Only the truly economically woke can easily accept the feasibility of this statement. But human flight is impossible obviously. 




hazlitt  birthday

November 28, 1964

We Haven't Been Good Enough

I am going to give what is no doubt a terribly oversimplified answer to that question. In the first place, we are almost hopelessly outnumbered. Our voices are simply drowned out in the general tumult and clamor. But there is another reason. And this is hard to say, above all to an audience of this sort, which contains some of the most brilliant writers and minds in the fields of economics, of jurisprudence, of politics, not only of this age but of any age. But the hard thing must be said that, collectively, we just haven't been good enough. We haven't convinced the majority. Is this because the majority just won't listen to reason? I am enough of an optimist, and I have enough faith in human nature, to believe that people will listen to reason if they are convinced that it is reason. Somewhere, there must be some missing argument, something that we haven't seen clearly enough, or said clearly enough, or, perhaps, just not said often enough.

A minority is in a very awkward position. The individuals in it can't afford to be just as good as the individuals in the majority. If they hope to convert the majority they have to be much better; and the smaller the minority, the better they have to be. They have to think better. They have to know more. They have to write better. They have to have better controversial manners. Above all, they have to have far more courage. And they have to be infinitely patient.

When I look back on my own career, I can find plenty of reasons for discouragement, personal discouragement. I have not lacked industry. I have written a dozen books. For most of 50 years, from the age of 20, I have been writing practically every weekday: news items, editorials, columns, articles. I figure I must have written in total some 10,000 editorials, articles, and columns; some 10,000,000 words! And in print! The verbal equivalent of about 150 average-length books! And yet, what have I accomplished? I will confess in the confidence of these four walls that I have sometimes repeated myself. In fact, there may be some people unkind enough to say I haven't been saying anything new for fifty years! And in a sense they would be right. I have been preaching essentially the same thing. I've been preaching liberty as against coercion; I've been preaching capitalism as against socialism; and I've been preaching this doctrine in every form and with any excuse. And yet the world is enormously more socialized than when I began.
……
Yet, in spite of this, I am hopeful. After all, I'm still in good health, I'm still free to write, I'm still free to write unpopular opinions, and I'm keeping at it. And so are many of you. So I bring you this message: Be of good heart: be of good spirit. If the battle is not yet won, it is not yet lost either.

Our Continuing Duty

I suppose most of you in this room have read that powerful book, George Orwell's 1984. On the surface it is a profoundly depressing novel, but I was surprised to find myself strangely encouraged by it. I finally decided that this encouragement arose from one of the final scenes in it. The hero, Winston Smith, is presented as a rather ordinary man, an intelligent but not a brilliant man, and certainly not a courageous one. Winston Smith has been keeping a secret diary, in which he wrote: "Freedom is the freedom to say that two and two makes four." Now this diary has been discovered by the Party. O'Brien, his inquisitor, is asking him questions. Winston Smith is strapped to a board or a wheel, in such a way that O'Brien, by merely moving a lever, can inflict any amount of excruciating pain upon him (and explains to him just how much pain he can inflict upon him and just how easy it would be to break Smith's backbone). O'Brien first inflicts a certain amount of not quite intolerable pain on Winston Smith. Then he holds up the four fingers of his left hand, and says, "How many fingers am I holding up? Winston knows that the required answer is five. That's the Party answer. But Winston can't say anything else but four. So O'Brien moves the lever again, and inflicts still more agonizing pain upon him, and says, "Think again. How many fingers am I holding up?" Winston Smith says, "Four. Four. Four fingers." Well, he finally capitulates, as you know, but not until he has put up a magnificent battle.

None of us is yet on the torture rack; we are not yet in jail; we're getting various harassments and annoyances, but what we mainly risk is merely our popularity, the danger that we will be called nasty names. So, before we are in the position of Winston Smith, we can surely have enough courage to keep saying that two plus two equals four.

This is the duty that is laid upon us. We have a duty to speak even more clearly and courageously, to work harder, and to keep fighting this battle while the strength is still in us. But I can't do better than to read the words of the great economist, the great thinker, the great writer, who honors me more than I can say by his presence here tonight, Ludwig von Mises. This is what he wrote in the final paragraph of his great book on socialism 40 years ago:

"Everyone carries a part of society on his shoulders; no one is relieved of his share of responsibility by others. And no one can find a safe way out for himself if society is sweeping towards destruction. Therefore, everyone, in his own interests, must thrust himself vigorously into the intellectual battle. None can stand aside with unconcern; the interests of everyone hang on the result. Whether he chooses or not, every man is drawn into the great historical struggle, the decisive battle into which our epoch has plunged us."


Those words - uncannily prophetic words - were written in the early 1920's. Well, I haven't any new message, any better message than that. Even those of us who have reached and passed our 70th birthdays cannot afford to rest on our oars and spend the rest of our lives dozing in the Florida sun. The times call for courage. The times call for hard work. But if the demands are high, it is because the stakes are even higher. They are nothing less than the future of human liberty, which means the future of civilization.