# Intro

My name is Jorge Besada and I am running for Congress in Washington State' 9th District

I am computer guy, a contractor at Microsoft.

I was born in Cuba, a country destroyed by economic ignorance. The great free-market economics Ludwig von Mises felt it was 'the primary civic duty' to spread an understanding of economics, of the so-called free-market, of real Capitalism. I see things likewise, I too see it as my moral duty to help others overcome the economic fallacies that take us towards . So I would like to begin this introductory campaign video by quoting the great Mises which will nicely capture the essense of my campaing. 


"Economics must not be relegated to classrooms and statistical offices and must not be left to esoteric circles. It is the philosophy of human life and action and concerns everybody and everything. It is the pith of civilization and of man's human existence…All present-day political issues concern problems commonly called economic. All arguments advanced in contemporary discussion of social and public affairs deal with fundamental matters of…economics. Everybody's mind is preoccupied with economic doctrines…Everybody thinks of economics whether he is aware of it or not. In joining a political party and in casting his ballot, the citizen implicitly takes a stand upon essential economic theories…As conditions are today, nothing can be more important to every intelligent man than economics. His own fate and that of his progeny is at stake…all reasonable men are called upon to familiarize themselves with the teachings of economics. This is, in our age, the primary civic duty....Economics deals with society's fundamental problems; it concerns everyone and belongs to all. It is the main and proper study of every citizen."


"The fact that the majority of our contemporaries, the masses of semi-barbarians led by self-styled intellectuals, entirely ignore everything that economics has brought forward, is the main political problem of our age. There is no use in deceiving ourselves. American public opinion rejects the market economy, the capitalistic free-enterprise system that provided the nation with the highest standard of living ever attained...

If we want to avoid the destruction of Western civilization and the relapse into primitive wretchedness, we must change the mentality of our fellow citizens. We must make them realize what they owe to the much vilified "economic freedom," the system of free enterprise and capitalism....

The issues of society's economic organization are every citizen's business. To master them to the best of one's ability is the duty of everyone."

So in this inctroductory video I'd like to very quickly go over a few vital econmic concepts which every citizen should and can easily understand and later apply them to our current problems. 

Just like the human body is the result of the actions of over 30 trillion cells which are coordinated by various "systems"
like the respiratory, nervous, and digestive "systems", the global socioeconomic order is also coordinated by a "system", by what economists of the so-called 'Austrian School', like Ludwig von Mises and his great protégé 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics F.A. Hayek, referred to as "The Market Process". 'The Market Process' and the "parts" it is composed of like money, prices, economic competition, and interest rates is the process that coordinates the actions of nearly 8 billion human beings in a manner that they produce more wealth than they consume so they get to live.

1. More money does not equal more wealth. Imagine if everyone in the world suddenly had an extra billion dollars. Would this make society wealthier? No. The amount of REAL wealth(goods/services) has not increased by a single toothpick. It would actually lead to less wealth since many people wound stop working/producing seeing their new-found fortune. 

2. More money just leads to relative higher prices.  If 10 people in an island each have ten dollars so there is a total of $100, can anything sell for $200? Of course not, because even if they all combine their money there would still not be enough for the transaction can’t take place. What if each person has 1 million so there are now 10 million in total. Can something now sell for $200 or $1 million? Of course. So what is obviously needed for prices to rise?, more money. Who creates the money that allows this, the governments via their central banks like the Fed in the USA.

3. The creation of money by governments is just a hidden tax that transfers wealth from savers and society at large to the people who get the money. Let's say you produced 100 haircuts for $10/each and now have saved $1,000 which can buy you 1,000 hamburgers at $1/each. The government via Fed and a convoluted process eventually creates billions of dollars which are ultimately given to people   


For example, if there are 1,000 people in an island (BlueIsle) and each has $100 for a total of $100,000 in the island, can anything sell for $200,000? Of course not, even if they all combined their money such a transaction could not happen because there isn't enough money, but what if each person had $500 so that there is now a total of $500,000? Then yes obviously, prices could go up to $500,000. So for general prices to go up there HAS to be more money. And who creates the money and is ultimately responsible for a general increase in prices? Generally speaking, today all money is created by governments via their central banks (Federal Reserve in USA) and they are thus responsible for the price increases. Let’s say you print yourself 1,000 trillion dollars and start offering people in the USA’s West coast ridiculous amounts of money for their goods/property/wealth. You buy all the wealth in California, Washington, Oregon, etc. As this is happening Americans are growing richer in terms of money but poorer in terms of what really matters, homes/property/wealth. At some point you make it to Florida, by this time it will be packed with about 300 million Americans and perhaps the 1,000 trillion dollars or more you kept offering people. The price of wealth tends to be the amount of money that is offered in exchange for it given all the other things the money could be traded for. With so much money and so little wealth left, the price of everything would be astronomical and people would be much poorer given that you are the one that possesses most of the wealth in the country. Assuming the total amount of money remains stable, if the economy/wealth is expanding, which can only happen if the rate at which goods/services/wealth is produced is faster than the rate at which it is consumed, we expect general prices to go DOWN because the money will sort of get divided among more goods/wealth so less money per item/wealth means a lower price. If the amount of wealth remains stable or grows slower than the amount/supply of money, then we have more money per item, thus higher prices.

Let's go over a final and very important example. Keep your eye on how much wealth is being produced and consumed, and the relationship between the quantity of money, wealth, and thus prices. Let's say Alan prints himself another $100,000 which is enough to hire half the people in BlueIsle for 3 months while they build him a small castle. Alan thinks this is a great idea, he is paying some people more than what they were making before, there were also a few unemployed or unmotivated-to-work people before but he is offering enough money to get everyone working thus achieving "full-employment". Prior to trading their labor for Alan's paper/money, people were producing stuff that they either wanted/needed to consume themselves or could be sold/traded to others who obviously wanted/needed to consume them, they were producing "socially desired" or "order/life creating/sustaining" stuff like oranges/apples/hair-cuts/blankets/baskets/etc. The day half the population begins working on Alan's castle, the island's economic pie begins to lose half its "socially desired" stuff/wealth since half the population is no longer creating it, and begins increasing the amount of rocks, ladders, and other things for Alan's castle. These things, are NOT "socially desired" or "order creating/sustaining" wealth as judged/calculated by the inhabitants. Since the existing $100,000 will be distributed over half as many socially-desired-goods, this would eventually motivate their prices to about double. However, since Alan is further doubling the money supply as he pays people using his newly printed $100,000, on the last days of castle-building, when half the population is still working on his castle and they have also received most of the new $100,000, prices would have nearly doubled once again making them about 4 times higher than they were before Alan came up with his idea. It should be easy to see that Alan has reordered society in an inferior way. Everyone is "working" and making more money than before, but the unavoidable reality that they are ordered in a less productive way reflects itself in the much higher prices and smaller amount of wealth on average that each can consume. Ideally people now "lose their jobs", and instead of working on the easily identifiable yet disastrous plan laid out by Alan, for a few days there appears to be "chaos" as people discover superior plans and likely transition to their old trades/jobs thus once again reordering society on a far, far more productive way. However, they are **economically ignorant**, so they tell Alan "Can you hire us again to make the castle bigger? You pay us more than what we used to make before. You are about to create massive unemployment". Alan thinks to himself "Gosh! It is a good thing that by creating money I am preventing massive unemployment and chaos. Obviously I must keep providing 'liquidity'!" So the relative suffering continues. Had Alan been a bad king, who instead of creating money to acquire the necessary wealth to create his castle, simply taxed people at a 50% rate, the people's living standard would have suffered similarly, but they would have easily understood the fact that their wealth was taken from them for the creation of things they didn't want or benefit from for a hopefully more obvious massive loss.

The higher prices that creating money brings about can be seen as a hidden tax on the public whose money/savings can now buy them less wealth than before. If you have $100 saved and can buy 100 hamburgers for $1 each and because of inflation their price is now $2 so you can only buy 50, you have essentially been taxed an additional 50% thus losing half of your wealth. Regardless of the amount of money, at any given time there exists a certain amount of wealth owned/control by certain individuals. The moment governments create money and give it to some entity they are allowing that entity to trade it for wealth and thus consume wealth without having previously increased production for a net loss/transfer from society. The creation of money by governments just transfers wealth from the public/savers to those who get the money.



